 
CONTENTS

I

Il

Ii]

IV

Editor’s Introduction

1 Psyche: East and West

2 The Book of Changes

3 Change in the J Ching

4 The Oracle

5 On the Use of the Oracle
6 Notes on This Edition

The Hexagrams

Legge’s Preface and Introduction

1 Preface

2 Introduction

Legge’s Appendixes [II-VII

1 The Great Treatise

2 On the First and Second Hexagrams

3 Treatise of Remarks on the Trigrams

4 The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams
5 Treatise on the Hexagrams Taken

Promiscuously

xi
13
17
23
27
32
39

43

317

~ 319

326

375
377
419
430
438

443
| CHING
EDITOR’S INTRODUCTION
1 Psyche: East and West

On the face of it, the “Book of Changes”

seems about as likely a candidate for a

mass-cult following as the “Summa Theologica.”
— The New York Times

A BOOK REVIEWER in a recent New York Times article seemed
stunned by the rapid growth of occultism in America, especially
by the massive modern interest in the / Ching. He reasoned that
the I Ching offered “a release from a discredited science and
rationalism . . . a relation between the individual and his worlds
undreamt of in the schemes of social engineers.”

Many contemporary writers have tentatively pointed to a sense
of isolation and despair individuals suffer from in our society. So
many men, of every station, have seemed to lose whatever faith
they have had. They seek but cannot find a reasonable alternative.
Rather han live in the vacuum which results from such a loss, they
eventually turn to immediate rewards, to an insulated comfort,
hoping to shield themselves from adversity and from unanswer-
able questions. Their lives are determined escapes, dominated by
a sublimated series of demigods, deities cloaked in the disguises of
success and science, statistics and the fashionable.

Is it only an illusion, caused by the fact that this is our era and
therefore we give it exaggerated importance, that our civilization,
and perhaps even mankind, is facing an evolutionary crisis? Do
other historical crises of the spirit and social order compare in im-
pact and effect to that which we now face? In the long run, or as
the I Ching would say, within the rhythm of the universe, it per-
haps does not matter. Other crises become academic, or exercises
in historical and philosophic scholarship. The problems we face
today are real and dynamic. They possess a strength and impart an
apprehension that seems unique to civilized man. Some might say
war, or particularly the two great world wars are comparable, but
this is not so. The wars, as do all wars, have clear enemies; they
present a tangible element which can be attacked and overcome.
The present malaise is not so easily isolated and it cannot, ob-
viously, be attacked directly. For how does one attack a loss of
values, of identification with the world at large or the society one
lives in? How does one demark the battleground when it takes
14 EpiTor’s INTRODUCTION

place in one’s inner being where boundaries become blurred?
Alienation is not resolved by superficial identifications. That only
brings greater separation and anxiety. One can find only tem-
porary relief through identification with transient values.

But this crisis is not new. The writers of the J Ching recognized
this archetypal and ardent striving for universal identification.
They looked not at transient values, or superficial answers such as
commercial and social success, but rather at the rhythm of the
flower as it thrusts from the ground, blossoms, spreads its seed,
wilts, and returns from whence it came. Such, to the writers of the
1 Ching, held a profound meaning. Where there was only mystery
for many and fear of the transience of life for others, there resided
an eternal truth for a few. This movement of life, its necessary
ultimate destruction and eternal recurrence, its polarity of prin-
ciples and energies, dictated a way of life that could, if based upon
insight and wisdom, pattern itself after the cosmos.

If any general concept has become apparent since man began his
pursuit of himself on this earth, it is that the deeper we plumb the
depths of existence, in whatever sphere, the more we discover an
underlying pattern, a unifying structure, an organization and
balancing of forces. It is therefore not unreasonable to assume that
the mind, as manifested in consciousness, is also governed by pat-
terns. While we are yet too ignorant about the mechanism of
“mind” or consciousness to see such patterns, it would be foolish
to assume that it, among all manifestations of life, would lack this
basic characteristic.

There is little doubt today that the boundaries of man’s con-
sciousness have exceeded the vision of nineteenth- and twentieth-
century materialism. The twin offspring of that materialism,
logical positivism in philosophy and behaviorism in psychology,
picture man as a sophisticated mechanical apparatus limited in his
perception to his five senses. This view of man has been largely
rejected in a world permeated with subsensory systems that are
constantly being discovered by a growing and more sophisticated
technology. One cannot logically say our myopic eye-level view
of a table or chair, or even another human being, is complete when
it becomes common knowledge that there are strong magnetic
forces and an almost infinite number of particles and atoms hold-
ing it together. Separate those particles and the chair or table, or
man, would dissolve into invisibility. To accept with conviction
that another reality, beyond that which we can perceive, not only
exists but dominates our world is extremely difhcult. To account
for the confusion engendered by such disparate realities between
what our senses tell us is true and what a sophisticated instrument
1 Psycug: EasT AND WEST 15

like an atom smasher or microscope tells us, man has been forced
to develop new ideas, new dimensions of thought, new philoso-
phies.

The irony of this is that the philosophies used most frequently
to account for this subsensory world, for this invisible world of
interlocking and interdependent energies, are not actually new.
Even the most original approaches, such as the contemporary
philosophy called phenomenology, draw heavily upon classical
systems of thought, upon men whose vision penetrated such mys-
teries before our modern technology and instruments showed us
their objective existence. Such is the talent of man’s visionary
mind that a Greek philosopher of the fifth century s.c., Democ-
ritus, could envision correctly a world composed of tiny particles
he calied atoms, which he thought were imperceptible to the senses
and in constant motion. There are many such examples of man’s
creative thinking. Plato and Socrates thought it recalling some-
thing already known. Modern philosophers have coined the term
a priori to denote ideas that seem to exist in the mind prior to
experience, to be innate in the mind.

The question of perception, and ultimately reality itself, even-
tually becomes entangled with the concept of mind. Mind seems
the dynamic common to these difficult and abstruse mysteries.
And when one discusses mind, the question of consciousness,
man’s unique talent for being aware of his awareness and capable
of reflecting logically upon it, inevitably arises. It is inadequate to
explain away such awareness by calling it an accidental arrange-
ment of neurons in an uncommonly developed animal brain. The
inadequacy of such an idea is pointed up by the great number of
alternative theories that have been developed over the years.

In recent years, a great deal of attention has been given to the
idea of an “expanding consciousness” —a conscious awareness that
can reach out to perceive and understand an object physically
separate from the “subject,” that is, the perceiving instrument,
yourself. There are many ways to experience this expanding
awareness. They range from drug taking and flagellation to medita-
tion and inspiration.

It is this capacity of the mind to “extend” itself, to identify with
an object or event, with principles outside its physical boundaries,
that many feel the / Ching calls upon. The process is mysterious,
but it is believed that the manipulation of the yarrow stalks or
coins allows the unconscious in man to express itself more actively.
The mind, according to this theory, is the repository of all knowl-
edge. Theories which imply the existence and greater wisdom of
the unconscious are common to many thinkers: Averroés—the
16 EpiTor’s INTRODUCTION

world soul; Leibniz — the monadic or spirit world; C. G. Jung and
H. H. Price—the collective unconscious; Henri Bergson— the
cosmic mind; Whately Carington—the group mind; G. N. M.
Tyrrell —the subliminal self; R. H. Thouless and B. P. Weisner —
the “Shin” theory; William James—the stream of consciousness,
to name only a few.

This repository is consciously tapped by the mind’s expanding
awareness. Consciousness, in effect, probes the world around itself
for meaningful identifying principles, for a framework within
which it can take its place in the world. Alienation consequently
results from too great an isolation from the unifying principles
or identifying marks on the road to spiritual maturity. The / Ching
then becomes a device whereby the inquiring mind of the ques-
tioner can find road signs that lead him to his destined place in the
world. Since this is a unifying path, the destiny of each man is
ultimately the same, but each person’s way is fraught with per-
sonal dangers and idiosyncrasies. The / Ching helps one avoid
these dangers by advising the questioner about the conditions that
prevail; it aids the inquiring mind to expand its perimeter, to reach
out intuitively to learn that which it already knows but is yet
unaware of.

Everyday waking consciousness is then only a stage in the be-
ginning of life, and so the consciousness of everyday man may only
be the childhood of his potential awareness.
6 Notes on This Edition

THis EpiTioN of James Legge’s classical translation of the /
Ching is in effect a new book. The organization has been simplified
and condensed so that the reader may directly consult the oracle.
The present edition’s primary goal is to combine the advantage of
a recognized superior translation of the / Ching with an easy-to-
consult, practical guide to its use.

The primary value of Legge’s translation of the / Ching is that it
is the only zhorough rendition of the Chinese classic directly into
English. Of the other two leading translations, one is so sparse that
it offers no effective competition, and the other was first translated
into German, and then from German into English.

Certain liberties have been taken with Legge’s long and brilliant
labor involving the manifold complexities of the I Ching. Legge was
not translating for a potential popular market. As a scholar and
sinologist, he worked to communicate the writings of China to his
fellow scholars. This approach obviously produces an expert and
superior translation, but the organization of the original book was
neither fluid nor easy to read. In its original form, there were nu-
merous footnotes, appendixes, and cross references. This organiza-
tion has been simplified and condensed so that the reader may geta
more complete answer without having to seek the parts of each
hexagram in seven different places. Legge felt that for his fellow
sinologists to grasp the I Ching’s meaning more effectively, each
part of the Ten Wings, or sections of the book's philosophy, should
be separated for easy reference. While this was fine for scholarship,
it made the practical consultation of the I Ching as an oracle nearly
impossible.

Legge also transliterated many of the Chinese characters into
English according to a scholarly system popular in his day. This
system employs special characters, diacritical marks, and other
symbols meaningful only to linguists. It is a precise system and
may have been necessary for Legge’s original edition, but it would
be difficult and obscuring for this edition. For simplicity’s sake the
Wade-Giles system of writing Chinese characters (used by the
major number of Chinese-English dictionaries and by most mod-
ern translators of Chinese) has been used throughout this edition.

No system of Chinese-English transliteration can be perfect;
note that several hexagrams appear to have the same name, such as
40 EpiTtor’s INTRODUCTION.

Ch’ien for both hexagrams 1 and 15. The same problem exists in
Legge’s much more complicated system, which produces identical
spellings like Khien for the same two hexagrams. This is due to the
subtle peculiarities of Chinese and the lack of precise equivalents
in English. The Chinese can tell the difference between the words
by slight changes in tone when pronouncing them and variations
in writing the individual characters.

Another modification was to include the translated name of each
hexagram at the beginning. Oddly, Legge never provided individ-
ual hexagram names. Those used in this book are for the most part
from his commentaries and notes. Where I was in doubt as to
Legge’s preference for a hexagram’s name, I followed a compara-
tive list of the traditional names given by other translators (in-
cluding the valuable transcription table for each of the sixty-four
hexagrams in another edition of Legge’s translation by Ch'u and
Winberg Chai). Using all of these approaches it was possible to
clarify what the hexagram’s English equivalents would most likely
be. Finally, it was also necessary to make sure that the name given
to each was in complete accord with the text of the hexagrams
themselves.

No attempt has been made to modernize Legge’s own language
—even the spelling and punctuation are his own. Although it may
take the reader a page or two to accustom himself to Legge’s style,
the effort is worth the trouble; good scholarly prose of the nine-
teenth century presents no real problems to the modern reader.

Some criticize Legge for his strict scholarship and point to Wil-
helm’s identification with the / Ching and Chinese philosophy as
evidence for preferring the Wilhelm-Baynes translation to Legge’s.
This merely indicates a lack of familiarity with Legge’s translation.
For although Legge was more of a skeptic and less of a mystic than
Wilhelm, he was nevertheless an inspired translator—one who
recognized the need for a creative identification with the original
author that went beyond syntax or grammatical knowledge. As he
explained, “the written characters of the Chinese are not represen-
tations of words, but symbols of ideas, and . .. not a representation
of what the writer would say, but of what he thinks.” Thus, the
translator supplies not just equivalents, as in translating from one
Western language to another, but the syntax itself — the thought of
the writer. This is a difficult task and takes scholarship, empathy,
and humility. To make his translation readable and at the same
time indicate what he had supplied himself, Legge enclosed in
parentheses his own connective words and phrases. This conven-
tion is at first glance disturbing to the reader, but one soon be-
comes accustomed to it and has the satisfaction of knowing what is
6 NoTeEs oN THis Epition 41

in the original source and what is merely the translator’s reading of
the source.

In his description of the translator's mood, Legge describes the
attitude not only of the wise translator but also of the questioner of
the / Ching. “When the symbolic characters have brought his mind
en rapport with that of his author . . . there is not so much an inter-

retation of the characters employed by the writer as a participa-
tion of his thoughts — there is the seeing of mind to mind.”
THE HEXAGRAMS
85" 8¢€ 19 61
inl 13n,y n4 8unyd ung
6v [13 LE 9¢ T
oN n uaf eiyD 1 8uIW 'd yo!
8C 0s LS 9t gl 8t
ony ej Bui ung 8uays ny Buiyd
nsp uyy d.
wh |B
ualsH nl
LY ¥9

 

 

sweigexapH 01 Ady
The Composition of the Hexagrams

i. JUDGMENT

2. COMMENTARY

3. THE GREAT SYMBOLISM
4. THE LINES

5. LEGGE'S NOTES

1. Each hexagram begins with the Judgment, or Text. This is an
explanation of the hexagram by King Wen. In Chinese this is
called the Tuan. .

2. Next come the paragraphs of Commentary on the Judgments
of King Wen. These are called the T"uan Chuan. Tradition ascribes
the Commentary to Confucius, though Legge explains in his Intro-
duction that this is unlikely and the actual author remains in doubt.
However, the controversy continues. Wilhelm, for instance, writes
it is “highly probable” that the Commentary was authored by
Confucius. Legge had originally placed the Commentary on all the
hexagrams in his Appendix I, believing that other sinologists and
scholars could not get a true understanding of the / Ching without
such a separation of all the Ten Wings. Many authorities, however,
believe with Winberg and Ch’u Chai that “for the convenience of
study, the pertinent portions of the appendices should be incor-
porated into the text of the 7 Ching, so that the respective kua [or to
use Legge’s terms, the trigrams and hexagrams] and their separate
hsiao [lines] could be studied together with their pertinent Judg-
ments (7"uan) and Commentaries (Chuan).” After reviewing the
construction of Legge’s translation 1 decided to fulfill this need and
to incorporate the first two appendices into the hexagrams where
they logically belong. This gives the reader a complete reading of
all the remarks of both King Wen and the duke of Chou, and the
comments on these remarks, at one time. In Legge’s original con-
struction the questioner was called upon to seek the full answer to
his question in seven different places, including the first two ap-
pendices. This is no longer the case. All the pertinent material on
each hexagram is now included under the number of that hexa-
gram.

3. The third part of the hexagram is The Great Symbolism, or
Image. It refers to the images associated with the trigrams in each
hexagram and discusses the trigrammatic composition of the hexa-
gram. In Chinese this is called the Hsiang Chuan, or Treatise on the
Symbolism. In Legge’s original construction, it was in Appendix
46 HEXAGRAMS

|
II. The Original Treatise on the Symbolism, including the Great
and Lesser Symbolism, is attributed to Confucius.

4. The fourth part of the hexagram is The Lines: first the ex-
planation of the lines by the duke of Chou, then the Lesser Sym- |
bolism, or Confucius’ comments on this explanation. The Lesser
Symbolism generally quotes the duke of Chou, then expands and
explains his meaning.

5. The final part of the hexagram is Legge’s notes. They are
valuable and I recommend them to every user of the I Ching. Legge
felt compelled to include them: “It was found necessary to accom-
pany the version with a running commentary, illustrating the way
in which the teachings of King Wen and his son (the duke of Chou)
are supposed to be drawn from the figures and their lines.”

They are Legge’s attempt to clarify the symbolism of the hexa-
gram and its meaning. They also add explanatory comments and
quotes from other Chinese authorities on the meaning of the
individual lines. Since they were written primarily for the benefit
of Legge’s peers, they are sometimes difficult for the general
reader, but it seemed pointless to edit them arbitrarily, and so
nearly all of them are given here. Interpolations of my own, usually
merely for the purpose of making Legge’s references to his appen-
dixes and other classifications agree with the changes in this edi-
tion, are in brackets.— R.V.O.
CH’IEN 47

o

1 =
CHIEN
Creative

111

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien— heaven, the creative, male, active

Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

JUDGMENT

Chien (represents) what is great and originating, penetrating,
advantageous, correct and firm.

COMMENTARY

Vast is the ‘great and originating (power) indicated by Ch’ien!
All things owe to it their beginning: —it contains all the meaning
belonging to (the name) heaven.

The clouds move and the rain is distributed; the various things
appear in their developed forms.

(The sages) grandly understand (the connexion between) the end
and the beginning, and how (the indications of) the six lines (in the
hexagram) are accomplished, (each) in its season. (Accordingly)
they mount (the carriage) drawn by those six dragons at the proper
times, and drive through the sky.

The method of Ch’ien is to change and transform, so that every-
thing obtains its correct nature as appointed (by the mind of
Heaven); and (thereafter the conditions of) great harmony are
preserved in union. The result is ‘what is advantageous, and correct
and firm.

(The sage) appears aloft, high above all things, and the myriad
states all enjoy repose.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

Heaven, in its motion, (gives the idea of) strength. The superior
man, in accordance with this, nerves himself ro ceaseless activity.
48 CHIEN

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
In the first (or lowest) line, undivided, (we see its subject as) the
dragon lying hid (in the deep). It is not the time for active doing,
“The dragon lies hid in the deep; —it is not the time for active
doing?’ — (this appears from) the strong and undivided line’s being
in the lowest place.

Nine in the second place:

In the second line, undivided, (we see its subject as) the dragon
appearing in the field. It will be advantageous to meet with the
great man.

‘The dragon appears in the field’ —the diffusion of virtuous
influencehas been wide.

Nine in the third place:

In the third line, undivided, (we see its subject as) the superior
man active and vigilant all the day, and in the evening still careful
and apprehensive. (The position is) dangerous, but there will be no
mistake.

‘Active and vigilant all the day:’ — (this refers to) the treading of
the (proper) path over and over again.

Nine in the fourth place:

In the fourth line, undivided, (we see its subject as the dragon
looking) as if he were leaping up, but still in the deep. There will
be no mistake.

‘He seems to be leaping up, but is still in the deep:’ —if he ad-
vance, there will be no error.

© Nine in the fifth place:

In the fifth line, undivided, (we see its subject as) the dragon on
the wing in the sky. It will be advantageous to meet with the great
man.

‘The dragon is on the wing in the sky: —the great man rouses
himself to his work.

Nine at the top:

In the sixth (or topmost) line, undivided, (we see its subject as)
the dragon exceeding the proper limits. There will be occasion for
repentance.

“The dragon exceeds the proper limits; — there will be occasion
for repentance:’ —a state of fulness, that is, should not be indulged
in long.
50 CHIEN

operations of nature and the course of human affairs. The various steps in
that course are symbolised by the lines of the hexagram; and the ideal sage,
conducting his ideal government, taking his measures accordingly, is rep-
resented as driving through the sky in a carriage drawn by six dragons.
Chu Hsi extravagantly says that ‘the sage is Heaven, and Heaven is the
sage; but there is nothing like this in the text.

On the Great Symbolism

Chien is formed by redoubling the trigram of the same name. In the
case of other hexagrams of similar formation, the repetition of the trigram
is pointed out. That is not done here, according to Chu Hisi, ‘because there
is but one heaven.” But the motion of heaven is a complete revolution every
day, resumed again the next; so moves ‘the unwearied sun from day to day,’
making it a good symbol of renewed, untiring effort.
N 51

7
c

2
K’UN
Receptive (Resting in Firmness)

Ht
HII

Component Trigrams

Above: K’un—the earth, female, passive, receptive, etc.

Below: K’un—the earth, female, passive, receptive, etc.

JUDGMENT

K’un (represents) what ts great and originating, penetrating, ad-
vantageous, correct and having the firmness of a mare. When the
superior man (here intended) has to make any movement, if he take
the initiative, he will go astray; if he follow, he will find his (proper)
lord. The advantageousness will be seen in his getting friends in
the south-west, and losing friends in the north-east. If he rest in
correctness and firmness, there will be good fortune.

COMMENTARY

Complete is the ‘great and originating (capacity) indicated by
K’un! All things owe to it their birth; —it receives obediently the
influences of Heaven.

K’un, in its largeness, suppgrts and contains all things. Its ex-
cellent capacity matches the unlimited power (of Ch’ien). Its com-
prehension is wide, and its brightness great. The various things
obtain (by it) their full development.

The mare is a creature of earthly kind. Its (power of) moving on
the earth is without limit; it is mild and docile, advantageous and
firm: —such is the course of the superior man.

‘If he take the initiative, he goes astray:’—he misses, that is, his
proper course. ‘If he follow,’ he is docile, and gets into his regular
(course). ‘In the south-west he will get friends:’—he will be walk-
52 K’uN

ing with those of his own class. ‘In the north-east he will lose
friends:’— but in the end there will be ground for congratulation.

‘The good fortune arising from resting in firmness’ corresponds
to the unlimited capacity of the earth.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

The (capacity and sustaining) power of the earth is what is
denoted by K’un. The superior man, in accordance with this, with
his large virtue supports (men and) things.

THE LINES
Six in the first place:

In the first line, divided, (we see its subject) treading on hoar-
frost. The strong ice will come (by and by).

‘He is treading on hoarfrost;—the strong ice will come (by and
by): —the cold (air) has begun to take form. Allow it to go on
quietly according to its nature, and (the hoarfrost) will come to
strong ice.

© Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, (shows the attribute of) being straight,
square, and great. (Its operation), without repeated efforts, will be
in every respect advantageous.

The movement indicated by the second line, divided, is ‘from
the straight (line) to the square.’ ‘(Its operation), without repeated
effort, in every way advantageous,’ shows the brilliant result of the
way of earth.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, (shows its subject) keeping his excellence
under restraint, but firmly maintaining it. If he should have occa-
sion to engage in the king’s service, though he will not claim the
success (for himself), he will bring affairs to a good issue.

‘He keeps his excellence under restraint, but firmly maintains
it: —at the proper time he will manifest it. ‘He may have occasion
to engage in the king’s service: — great is the glory of his wisdom.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, (shows the symbol of) a sack tied up.
There will be no ground for blame or for praise.

‘A sack tied up;—there will be no error:’—this shows how,
through carefulness, no injury will be received.
K’UN 53

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, (shows) the yellow lower garment. There
will be great good fortune.

‘The yellow lower-garment; — there will be great good fortune:’ —
this follows from that ornamental (colour’s) being in the right and
central place.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, (shows) dragons fighting in the wild.
Their blood is purple and yellow.

‘The dragons fight in the wild:’—the (onward) course (indicated
by K’un) is pursued to extremity.

Further commentary on the lines:

(The lines of this hexagram are all weak and divided, as appears
from) the use of the number six. If those (who are thus represented)
be perpetually correct and firm, advantage will arise.

‘(The lines are all weak and divided, as appears from) the use of
the number six: ~ but (those who are thus represented) becoming
perpetually correct and firm, there will thereby be a great con-
summation.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The same attributes are here ascribed to K’un, as in the former hexagram
to Ch’ien; — but with a difference. The figure, made up of six divided lines,
expresses the ideal of subordination and docility. The superior man, repre-
sented by it, must not take the initiative; and by following he will find his
lord, —the subject, that is, of Ch’ien. Again, the correctness and firmness is
defined to be that of ‘a mare,’ ‘docile and strong,’ but a creature for the
service of man. That it is not the sex of the animal which the writer has
chiefly in mind is plain from the immediate mention of the superior man,
and his lord.

That superior man will seek to bring his friends along with himself to
serve his ruler. But according to the arrangement of the trigrams by King
Wen, the place of K’un is in the south-west, while the opposite quarter is
occupied by the yang trigram Ken, as in Figure 2, Plate III. All that this
portion.of the T’uan says is an instruction to the subject of the hexagram
to seek for others of the same principles and tendencies with himself to
Serve their common lord. But in quietness and firmness will be his strength.

The symbolism of the lines is various. Paragraph 2 presents to us the
earth itself, according to the Chinese conception of it, as a great cube. To
keep his excellence under restraint, as in paragraph 3, is the part of a
54 K’uNn

minister or officer, seeking not his own glory, but that of his ruler. Para-
graph 4 shows its subject exercising a still greater restraint on himself than
in paragraph 3. There is an interpretation of the symbolism of paragraph 5
in a narrative of the Tso Chuan, under the 12th year of duke Ch’ao, B.c. 530,
‘Yellow’ is one of the five ‘correct’ colours, and the colour of the earth. “The
lower garment’ is a symbol of humility. The fifth line ts the seat of honour.
If its occupant possess the qualities indicated, he will be greatly fortunate.

See the note on the sixth line of hexagram 1. What is there said to be
‘beyond the proper limits’ takes place here ‘in the wild.’ The humble sub-
ject of the divided line is transformed into a dragon, and fights with the
true dragon, the subject of the undivided line. They fight and bleed, and
their blood is of the colour proper to heaven or the sky, and the colour
proper to the earth. Paragraph 7 supposes that the hexagram K’un should
become changed into Ch’ien; — the result of which would be good.

On the Commentary

As the writer in expounding the T’uan of hexagram | starts from the
word ‘heaven,’ so here he does so from the symbolic meaning attached to
‘earth.’ What I have said on the Text about the difference with which the
same attributes are ascribed to Ch’ien and K’un, appears clearly in para-
graph I. It is the difference expressed by the words that I have supplied, —
‘power’ and ‘capacity.’ Ch’ien originates; K’un produces, or gives birth to
what has been originated.

The ‘penetrating,’ or developing ability of K’un, as displayed in the
processes of growth, is the subject of paragraph 2. ‘The brightness’ refers
to the beauty that shines forth in the vegetable and animal worlds.

Paragraph 3 treats of the symbol of the ‘mare,’ to lead the mind to the
course of ‘the superior man,’ the good and faithful minister and servant.

See the note, corresponding to paragraph 4, on the Text. ‘Resting in
firmness’ is the normal course of K’un. Where it is pursued, the good effect
will be great, great as the unlimited capacity of the earth.

On the Great Symbolism

K’un is formed by redoubling the trigram of the same name and having
‘the earth for its symbol.’ As in the former hexagram, the repetition is em-
phatic, not otherwise affecting the meaning of the hexagram. ‘As there is
but one heaven,’ says Chu Hsi, ‘so there is but one earth.’ The first part of
‘the Great Symbolism’ appears in Canon McClatchie’s version as —‘K’un is
the generative part of earth.’ By ‘generative part’ he probably means ‘the
productive or prolific faculty.’ If he mean anything else, there comes out a
conclusion antagonistic to his own view of the ‘mythology’ of the /. The
character Shih which he translates by ‘generative part,’ is defined in Dr.
Williams’ dictionary as ‘the virility of males.’ Such is the special significance
of it. If it were so used here, the earth would be masculine.

It is difficult to say exactly what the writer meant by —‘The superior
man, in accordance with this, and with his large nature, supports (men and)
things.’ Lin Hsi-ytian (Ming dynasty) says:—“The superior man, in his
K'uN 55

single person, sustains the burden of all under the sky. The common people
depend on him for their rest and enjoyment. Birds and beasts and creeping
things, and the tribes of the vegetable kingdom, depend on him for the ful-
filment of their destined being. If he be of a narrow mind and cold virtue,
how can he help them? Their hope in him would be in vain.’
56 CHUN

—_— 3
— — CHUN
— _— Initial Difficulty

 

Component Trigrams

 

Above: Kan —water, a pit, danger

—— —— Bélow: Chen—thunder, movement, perilousness

JUDGMENT °

Chun (indicates that in the case which it presupposes) there will
be great progress and success, and the advantage will come from
being correct and firm. (But) any movement in advance should not
be (lightly) undertaken. There will be advantage in appointing
feudal princes.

COMMENTARY

In Chun we have the strong (Ch’ien) and the weak (K’un) com-
mencing their intercourse, and difficulties arising.

Movement in the midst of peril gives rise to ‘great progress and
success, (through) firm correctness.’

By the action of the thunder and rain, (which are symbols of
K’an and Chen), all (between Heaven and earth) is filled up. But the
condition of the time is full of irregularity and obscurity. Feudal
princes should be established, but the feeling that rest and peace
have been secured should not be indulged (even then).

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of} clouds and (that representing) thunder form
Chun. The superior man, in accordance with this, (adjusts his mea-
sures of government) as in sorting the threads of the warp and
woof,
| cuun 4 a7

THE LINES

oNine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows the difficulty (its subject has) in
advancing. It will be advantageous for him to abide correct and
firm; advantageous (also) to be made a feudal ruler.

Although ‘there is a difficulty in advancing,’ the mind (of the
subject of the line) is set on doing what is correct. While noble, he
humbles himself to the mean, and grandly gains the people.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows (its subject) distressed and
obliged to return; (even) the horses of her chariot (also) seem to be
retreating. (But) not by a spoiler (is she assailed), but by one who
seeks her to be his wife. The young lady maintains her firm correct-
ness, and declines a union. After ten years she will be united, and
have children.

The difficulty (to the subject of) the second line, divided, arises
from its place over the undivided line below it. “The union and
children after ten years’ shows things resuming their regular
course. *

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one following the deer without
(the guidance of) the forester, and only finding himself in the midst
of the forest. The superior man, acquainted with the secret risks,
thinks it better to give up the chase. If he went forward, he would
Tegret it.

‘One pursues the deer without the (guidance of the) forester: —
{he does so) in (his eagerness to) follow the game. “The superior
man gives up the chase, (knowing that) if he go forward he will
regret it:’—he would be reduced to extremity.

Six in the ‘fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows (its subject as a lady), the horses
of whose chariot appear in retreat. She seeks, however, (the help
of) him who seeks her to be his wife. Advance will be fortunate; all
will turn out advantageously.

‘Going forward after such a search (for a helper)’ shows intelli-
gence.

Nine in the fifth place:

_ The fifth line, undivided, shows the difficulties in the way of
(its subject’s) dispensing the rich favours that might be expected
fom him. With firmness and correctness there will be good
58 CHuy

fortune in small things; (even) with them in great things there wil]
be evil. :

‘Difficulty is experienced (by the subject of the fifth line) iy
bestowing his rich favours:’—the extent to which they reach will
not yet be conspicuous.

Six at the top:
The topmost line, divided, shows (its subject) with the horses of
his chariot obliged to retreat, and weeping tears of blood in streams,
‘He weeps tears of blood in streams:’—how can the state (thus
emblemed) continue long?

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character called Chun is pictorial, and was intended to show us
how a plant struggles with difficulty out of the earth, rising gradually
above the surface. This difficulty, marking the first stages in the growth
of a plant, is used to symbolise the struggles that mark the rise of a state
out of a condition of disorder, consequent on a great revolution. The same
thing is denoted by the combination of the trigrams that form the figure; —
as will be seen in the notes on {the Great Symbolism and Lines].

I have introduced within parentheses, in the translation, the words ‘in
the case which the hexagram presupposes.” It is necessary to introduce
them. King Wen and his son wrote, as they did in every hexagram, with
reference to a particular state of affairs which they had in mind. This was
the unspoken text which controlled and directed all their writing; and the
student must try to get hold of this, if he would make his way with comfort
and success through the J. Wen saw the social and political world around
him in great disorder, hard to be remedied. But he had faith in himself and
the destinies of his House. Let there be prudence and caution, with un-
swerving adherence to the right; let the government of the different states
be entrusted to good and able men: —then all would be well.

The first line is undivided, showing the strength of its subject. He will
be capable of action, and his place in the trigram of mobility will the more
dispose him to it. But above him is the trigram of peril; and the lowest line
of that, to which especially he must look for response and co-operation, is
divided and weak. Hence arise the ideas of difficulty in advancing, the
necessity of caution, and the advantage of his being clothed with authority.

To the subject of the second line, divided, advance is still more difficult.
He is weak in himself; he is pressed by the subject of the strong line below
him. But happily that subject, though strong, is correct; and above in the
fifth line, in the place of authority, is the strong one, union with whom and
the service of whom should be the objects pursued. All these circumstances
suggested to the duke of Chou the idea of a young lady, sought in marriage
by a strong wooer, when marriage was unsuitable, rejecting him, and finally,
after ten years, marrying a more suitable, the only suitable, match for her.

The third line is divided, not central, and the number of its place is ap-
CHUN 59

ropriate to the occupancy of a strong line. All these things should affect
the symbolism of the line. But the outcome of the whole hexagram being
ood, the superior man sees the immediate danger and avoids it.
The subject of the fourth line, the first of the upper trigram, has recourse
10 the strong suitor of line 1, the first of the lower trigram; and with his
help is able to cope with the difficulties of the position, and go forward.
The: subject of the fifth line is in the place of authority, and should show
himself a ruler, dispensing benefits on a great scale. But he is in the very
centre of the trigram denoting perilousness, and line 2, which responds to
5, is weak. Hence arises the symbolism, and great things should not be at-
tempted.
The sixth line is weak; the third responding to it is also weak; it is at the
extremity of peril; the game is up. What can remain for its subject in such
a case but terror and abject weeping?

On the Commentary

Chun is made up of the trigrams K’an and Chen; but according to the
views on King Wen’s arrangement of the trigrams, as set forth especially
in [“ Treatise of Remarks on the Trigrams,” in Part I'V], the six others come
from Chien and K’un, and are said to be their children. On the first ap-
plication of K’un to Chien, there results Ken, the first line of Ch'ien taking
the place of the last of K'un; and on the second application, there results
Kan, the middle line of Ch’ien taking the place of that of K’un. McClatchie
renders here: —“The Thun (Chun) diagram represents the hard and the
soft (air) beginning to have sexual intercourse, and bringing forth with suf-
fering!’ But there is nothing in the /, from the beginning to the end, to
justify such an interpretation. Nor do I see how, from any account of the
genesis by the component trigrams, the idea of the result as signifying a
state of difficulty and distress can be readily made out.

In paragraph 2 there is an attempt from the virtues or attributes assigned

to the trigrams to make out the result indicated in the [Judgment]. To move
and excite is the quality of K’an; perilousness is the quality of Chen. The
Power to move is likely to produce great effects; to do this in perilous and
difficult circumstances requires firmness and correctness. But neither is
this explanation very satisfactory.
i The first part of paragraph 3 depicts a condition of trouble and disorder
in the natural world occasioned by the phenomena that are symbols of the
Significance of K’an and Chen; but this is symbolical again of the disorder
and distress, political and social, characteristic of the time. Good princes
throughout the nation would help to remedy that; but the supreme au-
thority should not resign itself to indifference, trusting to them.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

~ Chen represents water, especially in the form of rain. Here its symbol
1 a cloud. The whole hexagram seems to place us in the atmosphere of a
thunderous sky overhung with thick and gloomy clouds, when we feel
Oppressed and distressed. This is not a bad emblem of the political state in
the mind of the writer. When the thunder has pealed, and the clouds have
discharged their burden of rain, the atmosphere is cleared, and there is a
60 CHuy

feeling of relief. But I fail again to discern clearly the connexion between
the symbolism and the lesson about the superior man’s administration of
affairs.

The subject of the first line of the Smaller Symbolism is represented by
the undivided line, and therefore is firm and correct. He is noble, but his
place is below the divided lines, symbols of the weak and mean (see [“On
the First and Second Hexagrams,” in Part IV]).

Line 2. “Things resume their regular course:’—the subject is now a
liberty to seek a union with the subject of line §, according to the rules of
the symbolism. Lines 1 and 4, 2 and 5, 3 and 6, the corresponding lines of
the trigrams, are correlates.

The subject of line 4 naturally recurs to the correlate in line 1. He is the
natural helper in the case, and he has the ability.
MENG 61
5
"7
— — MENG

—— Youthful Inexperience (Obscurity)

4

Component Trigrams

—— - -
— — Above: Ken—mountain, arresting progress

 

Below: K’an — water, a pit, danger

JUDGMENT

Meng (indicates that in the case which it presupposes) there will
be progress and success. I do not (go and) seek the youthful and
inexperienced, but he comes and seeks me. When he shows (the
sincerity that marks) the first recourse to divination, I instruct him.
If he apply a second and third time, that is troublesome; and I do
not instruct“the troublesome. There will be advantage in being
firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

In Meng we have (the trigram for) a mountain, and below it that
of a rugged defile with a stream in it. The conditions of peril and
arrest of progress (suggested by these) give (the idea in) Meng.

‘Meng indicates that there will be progress and success:’— for
there is development at work in it, and its time of action is exactly
what is right. ‘I do not seek the youthful and inexperienced; he
seeks me:’— so does will respond to will. ‘When he shows (the sin-
cerity that marks) the first recourse to divination, I instruct him:’—
for possessing the qualities of the undivided line and being in the
central place, (the subject of the second line thus speaks). ‘A second
and third application create annoyance, and I do not instruct so as
to create annoyance:’—annoyance (he means) to the ignorant.
62 MENg

(The method of dealing with) the young and ignorant is t
nourish the correct (nature belonging to them); — this accomplishes
the service of the sage.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain, and beneath it. that for a spring
issuing forth from Meng. The superior man, in accordance with
this, strives to be resolute in his conduct and nourishes his virtue,

THE LINES

Sux in the first place:

The first line, divided, (has respect to) the dispelling of igno-
rance. It will be advantageous to use punishment (for that purpose),
and to remove the shackles (from the mind). But going on in that
way (of punishment) will give occasion for regret.

‘It will be advantageous to use punishment’ —the object being
to bring under the influence of correcting law.

O Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, (shows its subject) exercising for-
bearance with the ignorant, in which there will be good fortune;
and admitting (even) the goodness of women, which will also be
fortunate. (He may be described also as) a son able to (sustain the
burden of) his family.

‘A son able to (sustain the burden of) his family:’—as appears
from the reciprocation between this strong line and the weak
(fifth line).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, (seems to say) that one should not marry
a woman whose emblem it might be, for that, when she sees a
man of wealth, she will not keep her person from him, and in no
wise will advantage come from her.

‘A woman (such as is here represented) should not be taken in
marriage:’ — her conduct is not agreeable to what is right.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, (shows its subject as if) bound in chains
of ignorance. There will be occasion for regret.

“The regret arising from ignorance bound in chains’ is due to
the special distance of (the subject of this line) from the solidity
(shown in lines 2 and 6).
MENG 63

‘oSix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject as a simple lad without
experience. There will be good fortune.

“The good fortune belonging to the simple lad without experi-
ence’ comes from his docility going on to humility.

Nine at’ the top:

In the topmost line, undivided, we see one smiting the ignorant
(youth). But no advantage will come from doing him an injury.
Advantage would come from warding off injury from him.

‘Advantage will come from warding off injury:’— (the subject of
this line) above and (the ignorant) below, all do and are done to in
accordance with their nature.

LEGGE’S NOTES

As Chun shows us plants struggling beneath the surface, Meng suggests
to us the small and undeveloped appearance which they then present; and
hence it came to be the symbol of youthful inexperience and ignorance.
The object of the hexagram is to show how such a condition should be
dealt with by the parent and ruler, whose authority and duty are repre-
sented by the second and sixth, the two undivided lines. All between the
first and last sentences of the [Judgment] must be taken as an oracular re-
sponse received by the party divining on the subject of enlightening the
youthful ignorant. This accounts for its being more than usually enig-
matical, and for its being partly rhythmical.

The subject of the first line, weak, and at the bottom of the figure, is in
the grossest ignorance. Let him be punished. If punishment avail to loosen
the shackles and manacles from the mind, well; if not, and punishment be
persevered with, the effect will be bad.

On the subject of the second line, strong, and in the central place, de-
volves the task of enlightening the ignorant; and we have him discharging
it with forbearance and humility. In proof of his generosity, it is said that
‘he receives, or learns from, even weak and ignorant women. He appears
also as ‘a son’ taking the place of his father.

The third line is weak, and occupies an odd place belonging properly to
an undivided line; nor is its place in the centre. All these things give the
Subject of it so bad a character.

The fourth line is far from both the second and sixth, and can get no
help from its correlate, —the first line, weak as itself. What good can be
done with or by the subject of it?

The fifth line is in the place of honour, and has for its correlate the
Strong line in the second place. Being weak in itself, it is taken as the sym-

ol of a simple lad, willing to be taught.

The topmost kine is strong, and in the highest place. It is natural, but
Unwise, in him to use violence in carrying on his educational measures. A
better course is suggested to him.
64 Meng

On the Commentary

The trigram Ken has for its symbol in the natural world 2 mountain,
which stands up frowningly, and stops or arrests the progress of the
traveller. Stoppage, understood sometimes actively, and sometimes pas.
sively, is called the virtue or attribute indicated by it. K’an has water for
its symbol, and especially in the form of rain. Here, however, the water
appears as a stream in a difficult defile, such as ordinarily appears on an
approach to a mountain, and suggesting perilousness as the attribute of
such a position. From the combination of these symbols and their attributes
the writer thinks that he gets the idea of the character (not the entire hexa-
gram) Meng, as symbolical of ignorance and inexperience. See on ‘the
Great Symbolism’ below.

Down to the last sentence of paragraph 2, all that is said is intended
to show how it is that the figure indicates progress and success. The
whole representation is grounded on the undivided line's being in the
central place. It is the symbol of active effort for the teaching of the ig-
norant in the proper place and time; this being responded to by the divided
fifth line, representing the ignorance to be taught as docile, ‘will responds
to will.” But the subject of line 2 requires sincerity in the applicant for in-
struction, and feels that he must make his own teaching acceptable and
agreeable. All this serves to bring out the idea of progress and success.

Then finally in the young and ignorant there is ‘a correct nature,’ a moral
state made for goodness. The efficient teacher directing his efforts to bring
out and nourish that, the progress and success will be ‘great; the service
done will be worthy of ‘a sage.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

“The spring here issuing forth’ is different from the defile with a stream
in it, in the [Commentary}; different moreover from ‘rain,’ mentioned also
as the phenomenon which is the natural symbol of K'an. The presence of
water, however, is common to the three. But the water of the spring, or of
the stream, would flow away from the hill, and not be stopped by it; as an
emblem therefore of the ignorance and inexperience denoted by Meng it is
not suitable. Chu Hsi says that ‘the water of a spring is sure to move on
and gradually advance.’ This may serve as a symbol of the general process
and progress of education, though it gives no account of the symbolism
of the hill. It serves also to explain in part the transition of the writer to
the subject of the superior man, and his dealing apparently with himself.

Does line 1 set forth the use of punishment as the dernier resort, un-
desirable, but possibly unavoidable, to bring men in subjection to law?

That a woman such as is represented in line 3 should not be taken in
marriage is clear enough; but I do not see the bearing of the illustration on
the proper lesson in the hexagram.

Line 3 separates 4 from 2, and 5 separates it from 6. Weak in itself, it is
farther removed than any other from the two strong lines in the hexagram,
and is represented as ‘cribbed’ in its ignorance.

The fifth is the most honourable place in the figure, and here is occupied
by a weak line. This looks, however, to the occupant of line 2, less honour-
MENG 65

able than itself, and is marked by the two attributes that are named. Com-
are what is said on line 2.

A strong line in the topmost place must represent, according to the
scheme of the hexagram, one who uses force in the cause of education; but
the force is put forth not on the ignorant, but on those who would keep
them ignorant, or increase their ignorance. The subject of this line, there-
fore, acts according to his nature, and the subjects of all the weak lines be-
low are cared for as is best for them.
aN
DN

Hs

 

— — HSU
—_—_ Waiting
Component Trigrams

Above: K'an— water, a pit, danger

" Below: Chien — heaven, the creative, male, active

JUDGMENT

Hsii intimates that, with the sincerity which is declared in it
there will be brilliant success. With firmness there will be good
fortune; and it will be advantageous to cross the great stream.

COMMENTARY

Hsu denotes waiting. (The figure) shows peril in front; but not-
withstanding the firmness and strength (indicated by the inner
trigram), its subject does not allow himself to be involved (in the
dangerous defile): —it is right he should not be straitened or re-
duced to extremity. :

When it is said that, ‘with the sincerity declared in Hsii, there
will be brilliant success, and with firmness there will be good
fortune,’ this is shown by the position (of the fifth line) in the place
assigned by Heaven, and its being the correct position for it, and
in the centre. ‘It will be advantageous to go through the great
stream;’ —that is, going forward will be followed by meritorious
achievement.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] clouds ascending over that for the sky forms
Hsii. The superior man, in accordance with this, eats and drinks,
feasts and enjoys himself (as if there were nothing else to employ
him).
Hst 67

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject waiting in the distant
porder. It will be well for him constantly to maintain (the purpose
thus shown), in which case there will be no error.

‘He is waiting in the (distant) border:’— he makes no movement
to encounter rashly the difficulties (of the situation). ‘It will be
advantageous for him constantly to maintain (the purpose thus
shown), in which case there will be no error’ —he will not fail to
pursue that regular course.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject waiting on the
sand (of the mountain stream). He will (suffer) the small (injury of)
being spoken (against), but in the end there will be good fortune.

‘He 1s waiting on the sand:’—he occupies his position in the
centre with a generous forbearance. Though ‘he suffer the small
injury of being spoken (against), he will bring things to a good
issue.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject in the mud (close
by the stream). He thereby invites the approach of injury.
} ‘He is waiting in the mud: — calamity is (close at hand, and as
It were) in the outer (trigram). ‘He himself invites the approach of
injury:’ —if he be reverent and careful, he will not be worsted.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject waiting in (the place
of) blood. But he will get out of the cavern.

‘He is waiting in (the place of) blood:’ — he accommodates him-
self (to the circumstances of the time), and hearkens to (its re-
quirements).

O Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject waiting amidst the
appliances of a feast. Through his firmness and correctness there
will be good fortune.

“The appliances of a feast, and the good fortune through being
firm and correct,’ are indicated by (the position in) the central and
Correct place.

Six at the top:
The topmost line, divided, shows its subject entered into the
68 Hs;

cavern. (But) there are three guests coming, without being urged
(to his help). If he receive them respectfully, there will be goog
fortune in the end.

‘Guests come unurged (to give their help), and if (the subject of!
the line) receive them respectfully, there will be good fortune iy
the end:’—though the occupant and the place are not suited to
each other, there has been no great failure (in what has been done),

LEGGE’S NOTES

Hsii means waiting. Strength confronted by peril might be expected to
advance boldly and at once to struggle with it; but it takes the wiser plan
of waiting till success is sure. This is the lesson of the hexagram. That
‘sincerity is declared in it’ is proved from the fifth line in the position of
honour and authority, central, itself undivided and in an odd place. In such
a case, nothing but firm correctness is necessary to great success.

‘Going through a great stream,’ an expression frequent in the /, may
mean undertaking hazardous enterprises, or encountering great difficulties,
without any special reference; but more natural is it to understand by ‘the
great stream’ the Yellow river, which the lords of Chou must cross in a
revolutionary movement against the dynasty of Yin and its tyrant. The
passage of it by King Wu; the son of Wen in B.c. 1122, was certainly one of
the greatest deeds in the history of China. It was preceded also by long
‘waiting,’ till the time of assured success came.

“The border’ under line 1 means the frontier territory of the state. There
seems no necessity for such a symbolism. “The sand’ and ‘the mud’ are
appropriate with reference to the watery defile; but it is different with ‘the
border.” The subject of the line appears at work in his distant fields, not
thinking of anything but his daily work; and he is advised to abide in that
state and mind.

‘The sand’ of paragraph 2 suggests a nearer approach to the defile, but
its subject is still self-restrained and waiting. I do not see what suggests the
idea of his suffering from ‘the strife of tongues.’

In paragraph 3 the subject is on the brink of the stream. His advance to
that position has provoked resistance, which may result in his injury.

Line 4 has passed from the inner to the upper trigram, and entered on
the scene of danger and strife; — ‘into the place of blood.’ Its subject is
‘weak and in the correct place for him;’ he therefore retreats and escapes
from the cavern, where he was engaged with his enemy.

Line 5 is strong and central, and in its correct place, being that of honour.
All good qualities therefore belong to the subject of it, who has triumphed,
and with firmness will triumph still more.

Line 6 is weak, and has entered deeply into the defile and its caverns.
What will become of its subject? His correlate is the strong line 3 below:
which comes with its two companions to his help. If they are respectfully
received, that help will prove effectual.
Hst 69
On the Commentary
Hsii is composed of Chien, having the quality of strength, and of Kan,
having the quality of perilousness. The strong one might readily dare the
eril, but he restrains himself and waits. This is the lesson of the hexagram,
— the benefit of action well considered, of plans well matured.

The fifth line, as we have observed more than once already, is the place
of honour, that due to the ruler or king. It is here called ‘the Heavenly or
Heaven-given seat, the meaning of which expression is clear from its
occurrence in the Shih, III, i, ode 2. 1. Five is an odd number, and the fifth
is therefore the ‘correct’ place for an undivided line; it is also the central
place of the trigram, indicating how its occupant is sure to walk in the due
mean.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘The cloud,’ it is said, ‘that has risen to the top of the sky, has nothing
more to do till it is called on, in the harmony of heaven and earth, to dis-
charge its store of rain.’ This gives to the writer the idea of waiting; and
the superior man is supposed to be taught by this symbolism to enjoy his
idle time, while he is waiting for the approach of danger and occasion for
action.

“The regular course’ of the subject of line 1 seems to be the determination
to wait, at a distance from danger, the proper time to act.

“The subject of line 2, which is undivided 4nd in the centre, is thereby
shown to be possessed of a large and generous forbearance.

The recognition of the circumstances of the time, and hearkening to its
requirements, explain, in {line] 4, ‘the retreat from the cavern,’ which is
not here repeated from the Text. The line being weak and divided, its
subject knows his own incompetency, and takes this prudent step.

Chu says that he does not understand what is said under line 6,— that
the occupant and the place are not suited to each other, for the yin line
being in the sixth, an even place, seems to be where it ought to be. We are
only surprised that cases of inconsistency in these explanations are not
more numerous.
ZN
Ch
6

= — SUNG

—— Conflict

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien— heaven, the creative, male, active

' Below: K’an— water, a pit, danger

JUDGMENT

Sung intimates how, though there is sincerity in one’s conten-
tion, he will yet meet with opposition and obstruction; but if he
cherish an apprehensive caution, there will be good fortune, while,
if he must prosecute the contention to the (bitter) end, there will be
evil. It will be advantageous to see the great man; it will not be
advantageous to cross the great stream.

COMMENTARY

The upper portion of Sung is (the trigram representing)
strength, and the lower (that representing) peril. (The coming to-
gether of) strength and peril gives (the idea in) Sung.

‘Sung intimates how, though there is sincerity i one’s conten-
tion, he will yet meet with opposition and obstruction; but if he
cherish an apprehensive caution, there will be good fortune:’—a
strong (line) has come and got the central place (in the lower
trigram).

‘If he must prosecute the contention to the (bitter) end, there
will be evil:’—contention is not a thing to be carried on to ex-
tremity.

‘It will be advantageous to meet with the great man: — what he
sets a value on is the due mean, and the correct place.

‘It will not be advantageous to cross the great stream:’— one
(attempting to do so) would find himself in an abyss.
SUNG 71

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of] heaven and (that representing) water, moving
away from each other, form Sung. The superior man, in accord-
ance with this, in the transaction of affairs takes good counsel
about his first steps.

THE LINES -

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject not perpetuating the
matter about which (the contention is). He will suffer the small
(injury) of being spoken against, but the end will be fortunate.

‘He does not perpetuate the matter about which (the contention
is)’ — contention should not be prolonged. Although ‘he may suf-
fer the small (injury) of being spoken against,’ his argument is
clear.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject unequal to the
contention. If he retire and keep concealed (where) the inhabitants
of his city are (only) three hundred families, he will fall into no
mistake.

‘He is unequal to the contention; he retires and keeps concealed,
stealthily withdrawing from it:’— for him from his lower place to
contend with (the stronger one) above, would be to (invite) calam-
ity, as if he brought it with his hand to himself.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject keeping in the old
place assigned for his support, and firmly correct. Perilous as the
position is, there will be good fortune in the end. Should he per-
chance engage in the king’s business, he will not (claim the merit
of) achievement.

‘He confines himself to the support assigned to him of olds’ —
(thus) following those above him, he will have good fortune.

Nine in the Sfourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject unequal to the
contention. He returns to (the study of Heaven's) ordinances,
changes (his wish to contend), and rests in being firm and correct.

There will be good fortune.

‘He returns to (the study of Heaven’s) ordinances, changes (his
wish to contend), and rests in being firm and corrects’ —he does
not fail (in doing what is right).
72 Sung

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject contending; —ang
with great good fortune.

‘He contends; —and with great fortune:’— this is shown by hjg
holding the due mean and being in the correct place.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows how its subject may have
the leathern belt conferred on him (by the sovereign), and thrice
it shall be taken from him in a morning.

‘He receives the robe through his contention’ —but still he is
not deserving of respect.

LEGGE’S NOTES

We have strength in the upper trigram, as if to regulate and control the
lower, and peril in that lower as if looking out for an opportunity to assail
the upper; or, as it may be represented, we have one’s self in a state of peril
matched against strength from without. All this is supposed to give the
idea of contention or strife. But the undivided line in the centre of Kan is
emblematic of sincerity, and gives a character to the whole figure. An
individual, so represented, will be very wary, and have good fortune; but
strife is bad, and if persevered in even by such a one, the effect will be evil.
The fifth line, undivided, in an odd place, and central, serves as a repre-
sentative of ‘the great man,” whose agency is sure to be good; but the top-
most line being also strong, and with its two companions, riding as it were,
on the trigram of peril, its action is likely to be too rash for a great enter-
prise. See the treatise on the [Judgment].

The subject of line I is weak and at the bottom of the figure. He may
suffer a little in the nascent strife, but will let it drop; and the effect will
be good. :

Line 2 represents one who is strong, and has the rule of the lower tri-
gram; — he has the mind for strife, and might be expected to engage in it.
But his strength is weakened by being in an even place, and he is no match
for his correlate in line §, and therefore retreats. A town or city with only
three hundred families is said to be very small. That the subject of the line
should retire to so insignificant a place is further proof of his humility

Line 3 is weak and in an odd place. Its subject therefore is not equal to
strive, but withdraws from the arena. Even if forced into it, he will keep
himself in the background; —and be safe. ‘He keeps in the old place as-
signed for his support’ is literally, ‘He eats his old virtue; meaning that he
lives in and on the appanage assigned to him for his services.

Line 4 is strong, and not in the centre; so that we are to conceive of its
subject as having a mind to strive. But immediately above it is line 5, the
symbol of the ruler, and with him it is hopeless to strive; immediately
below is 3, weak, and out of its proper place, incapable of maintaining 2
contention. Its proper correlate is the lowest line, weak, and out of its
SUNG 73

roper place, from whom little help can come. Hence its subject takes the
course indicated, which leads to good fortune.

Line § has every circumstance in favour of its subject.

Line 6 is strong and able to contend successfully; but is there to be no
end of striving? Persistence in it is sure to end in defeat and disgrace. The
contender here might receive a reward from the king for his success; but
if he received it thrice in a morning, thrice it would be taken from him
again. As to the nature of the reward here given, see on the Li Chi, X, ii, 32.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1 here is much to the same effect as the first sentence in the
notes on the [Judgment] of the Text. It is said, ‘Strength without peril
would not produce contention; peril without strength would not be able
to contend.’

2. ‘A strong line has come and got the central place.’ —this sentence
has given rise to a doctrine about the changes of trigrams and hexagrams,
which has obscured more than anything else the interpretation of the /.
Where has the strong second line come from? From a hundred critics we
receive the answer, — ‘From Tun [hexagram 33] The reader will see that
if the second and third lines of the lower trigram there be made to change
places, there results {hexagram 6,] or Sung. The doctrine of changing the
figures by the manipulation of the stalks did spring up between the time
of Wen and his son and that of the composition of the Appendixes; but
there is no trace of it in the real Text of the /; and it renders any scheme
for the interpretation of the figures impossible. The editors of the imperial
I allow this, and on the present passage discard the doctrine entirely, re-
fering to the language of the [Judgment] on hexagrams 11 and 12 as fatal
to it. See the notes there, and [Legge’s] Introduction. ‘A strong line has
come’ is to be taken as equivalent simply to ‘a strong line is there.’

What ‘the great man sets a value on being the due mean and the correct
Place, his decision in any matter of contention is sure to be right.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The symbolism here is different from that in the Text of the [Judgment].
We have the visible sky ascending and water or rain descending, which
Indicate, one hardly sees how, opposition and contention. The lesson as to
the course of the superior man is a good one, but might with equal pro-
Priety be deduced from many other hexagrams.

} Hsiang An-shih (Sung dynasty) says that the first part of paragraph 2
18 all to be taken as the language of the duke of Chou, the characters being
Varied; the rest is the remark of the writer of this treatise.

It is observed that the returning to (the study of Heaven's) ordinances,
and changing the wish to contend, in paragraph 4, are not two things, but
only one; ‘the ordinances (ming) meaning what is right in principle.” The
Wish to contend was wrong in principle, and is now abandoned.

‘The robe’ takes the place of ‘the leathern [belt] in [line] 6; but the [belt]
Was merely an appendage of the robe.
74 Sup

— 7
— ZZ SHIH
——— The Army (Group Action)

Component Trigrams
— Above: K'un —the earth, female, passive, receptive

—— Below: K’an— water, a pit, danger

JUDGMENT

Shih indicates how, in the case which it supposes, with firmness
and correctness, and (a leader of) age and experience, there wil
be good fortune and no error.

COMMENTARY

(The name) Shih describes the multitude (of the host). The
‘firmness and correctness’ (which the hexagram indicates) refer to
(moral) correctness (of aim). When (the mover) is able to use the
multitude with such correctness, he may attain to the royal sway.

There is (the symbol of) strength in the centre (of the trigram
below), and it is responded to (by its proper correlate above). The
action gives rise to perils, but is in accordance (with the best sent
ments of men). (Its mover) may by such action distress all the cour
try, but the people will follow him; —there will be good fortune:
and what error should there be?

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of} the earth and in the midst of it that represent:
ing water, form Shih. The superior man, in accordance with this,
nourishes and educates the people, and collects (from among
them) the multitudes (of the hosts).

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows the host going forth according ©
SHIH 75
the rules (for such a movement). If these be not good, there will
pe evil.

“The host goes forth according to the rules (for) such a move-
ment:”— if those rules be not observed, there will be evil.

oNine.in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows (the leader) in the midst of
the host. There will be good fortune and no error. The king has
thrice conveyed to him the orders (of his favour).

‘He is in the midst of the host, and there will be good fortune:’ —
he has received the favour of Heaven. “The king has thrice con-
veyed to him the orders (of) his favour: — (the king) cherishes the
myriad regions in his heart.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows how the host may, possibly, have
many inefficient leaders. There will be evil.

“The host with the possibility of its having many idle leaders:’—
great will be its want of success.

Six in the fourth place: :

The fourth line, divided, shows the host in retreat. There is no
error.

‘The host is in retreat; but there is no error:’—there has been
no failure in the regular course.

OSix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows birds in the fields, which it will
be advantageous to seize (and destroy). In that case there will be
no error. If the oldest son leads the host, and younger men (idly oc-
Cupy offices assigned to them), however firm and correct he may
be, there will be evil.

“The oldest son leads the host.’ — its movements are directed by
him in accordance with his position in the centre. ‘Younger men
dly occupy their positions: —the employment of such men is
Improper.

Six ar the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows the great ruler delivering his
Charges, (appointing some) to be rulers of states, and others to
Undertake the headship of clans; but small men should not be
tmployed (in such positions).

“The great ruler delivers his charges.’ — thereby he rightly ap-
Portions merit. ‘Small men should not be employed:’—they are
Sure to throw the states into confusion.
76 Say,

LEGGE’S NOTES

The conduct of military expeditions in a feudal kingdom, and we ma
say, generally, is denoted by the hexagram Shih. Referring to [the Com.
mentary, Great Symbolism, and Lines] for an explanation of the way in
which the combination of lines in it is made out to suggest the idea of an
army, and that idea being assumed, it is easy to see how the undivided line
in the second place should be interpreted of the general, who is responded
to by the divided line in the fifth and royal place. Thus entire trust is
reposed in him. He is strong and correct, and his enterprises will be suc.
cessful. He is denominated chang jen, ‘an old, experienced man.’

“The rules,’ it is said, ‘are twofold; —first, that the war be for a righteous
end; and second, that the manner of conducting it, especially at the outset,
be right.’ But how this and the warning in the conclusion should both fol-
low from the divided line being in the first place, has not been sufficiently
explained.

How line 2 comes to be the symbol of the general in command of the
army has been shown above on the [Judgment]. ‘he orders of the king
thrice conveyed to him are to be understood of his appointment to the
command, and not of any rewards conferred on him as a tribute to his
merit. Nor is stress to be laid on the ‘thrice.’ ‘It does not mean that the
appointment came to him three times; but that it was to him exclusively,
and with the entire confidence of the king.’

The symbolism of line 3 is very perplexing. P. Regis translates it:—-
‘Milites videntur deponere sarcinas in curribus. Male.’ Canon McClatchie
has: —‘Third-six represents soldiers as it were lying dead in their baggage
carts, and is unlucky.’ To the same effect was my own translation of the
paragraph, nearly thirty years ago. But the third line, divided, cannot be
forced to have such an indication. The meaning I have now given is more
legitimate, taken character by character, and more in harmony with the
scope of the hexagram. The subject of line 2 is the one proper leader of the
host. But line 3 is divided and weak, and occupies the place of a strong
line, as if its subject had perversely jumped over two, and perched himself
above it to take the command. This interpretation also suits better in the
5th paragraph.

Line 4 is weak and not central; and therefore ‘to retreat’ is natural fof
its subject. But its place is even, and proper for a divided line; and the
retreat will be right in the circumstances. .

In line 5 we seem to have an intimation of the important truth that only
defensive war, or war waged by the rightful authority to put down re-
bellion and lawlessness, is right. ‘The birds in the fields’ symbolise parties
attacking for plunder. The fifth line symbolises the chief authority, — the
king, who is weak, or humble, and in the centre, and cedes the use of all
his power to the general symbolised by line 2. The subject of 2 is ‘the
oldest son.’ Those of three and four are supposed to be ‘the younger brother
and son,’ that is, the younger men, who would cause evil if admitted to
share the command.

The lesson on the topmost line is true and important, but the critics
SHIH 77

seem unable to deduce it from the nature of the line, as divided and in the
sixth place.

On the Commentary

That ‘multitude’ is given here as if it were the meaning of the name
Shih arose, probably, from there being but one undivided line in the figure.
That is the symbol of the general, all the other lines, divided, suggest the
idea of a multitude obedient to his orders. The general's place in the centre
of the lower trigram, with the proper correlate in line 5, suggests the idea
of firmness and correctness that dominates in the hexagram. But in the
last sentence it is the ruler, and not the general of the host, who is the sub-
ject. Compare what is said of him with Mencius, 1, i, chap. 3; ii, chap. 5, &c.

‘Perilousness’ is the attribute of K’an, the lower trigram, and ‘docility,’
or ‘accordance with others,” that of K’un, the upper. War is like ‘poison’ to
a country, injurious, and threatening ruin to it, and yet the people will
endure and encounter it in behalf of the sovereign whom they esteem and
love.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘The Great Symbolism’ here is not more satisfactory than in other para-
graphs of it which have already come before us. Chu Hsi says: — ‘As the
water is not outside the earth, so soldiers are not outside the people. There-
fore if (a ruler) be able to nourish the people, he can get the multitudes (of
his hosts).’ Is the meaning this, — that originally the people and soldiers are
one body; that a portion of the people are taken out from among the mass,
as occasion requires, to do the duty of soldiers; and that the nourishment
and education of the people is the best way to have good soldiers ready for
use on any emergency? Compare the saying of Confucius in Analects
XIII, xxx.

What is said on the second line, that the general ‘has received the favour
of Heaven,” refers of course to the entire confidence reposed in him by the
ruler or king, the subject of line 5. In this way T’ien here is equal to T’ien
Wang, so frequent in the ‘Spring and Autumn,” and meaning — ‘King by
the grace of Heaven.’ But the great powers given to the general are from
the king’s wish through him to promote the good of all the nation.

In military operations there must be one ruling will and mind. A divided
authority is sure to be a failure. But ‘a retreat’ is no evidence of failure in a
campaign. When advance would lead to disaster, retreat is the regular
Course to pursue.

Other ways can be found to reward small men. They ought not to be
Placed in situations where the condition of others will depend on them.
78 PB,

rt.

—_ 8

-— PI

—— —— Union
Component Trigrams

 

Above: K’an — water, a pit, danger

— — Below: K’'un —the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

Pi indicates that (under the conditions which it supposes) there
is good fortune. But let (the principal party intended in it) re-ex-
amine himself, (as if) by divination, whether his virtue be great,
unintermitting, and firm. If it be so, there will be no error. Those
who have not rest will then come to him; and with those who are
(too) late in coming it will be ill.

COMMENTARY

‘Pi indicates that there is good fortune:’ — (the name) Pi denotes
help; (and we see in the figure) inferiors docilely following (their
superior). .

‘Let (the principal party intended in it) re-examine himself, (as
if) by divination, whether his virtue be great, unintermitting, and
firm; — if it be so, there will be no error: —all this follows from the
position of the strong line in the centre (of the upper trigram).
“Those who have not rest will come to him:’— high and low will
respond to its subject. ‘With those who are (too) late in coming it
will be ill:'— (for them) the way (of good fortune here indicated)
has been exhausted.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth, and over it (that representing) water
form Pi. The ancient kings, in accordance with this, established the
various states and maintained an affectionate relation to theif
princes.
i . 79

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject seeking by his sincerity
to win the attachment of his object. There will be no error. Let (the
breast) be full of sincerity as an earthenware vessel is of its con-
tents, and it will in the end bring other advantages.

From ‘the seeking union with its object’ shown in the first line,
divided, there will be other advantages.

Six in the second place:

In the second line, divided, we see the movement towards union
and attachment proceeding from the inward (mind). With firm
correctness there will be good fortune.

“The movement towards union and attachment proceeds from
the inward (mind):’— (the party concerned) does not fail in what
is proper to himself.

Six in the third place:

In the third line, divided, we see its subject seeking for union
with such as ought not to be associated with.

‘Union is sought with such as ought not to be associated with: —
but will not injury be the result?

Six in the fourth place:

In the fourth line, divided, we see its subject seeking for union
with the one beyond himself. With firm correctness there will be
good fortune.

‘Union is sought (by the party intended here) with one beyond
himself, and (in this case) with a worthy object’ — he is following
(the ruler) above him.

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, affords the most illustrious instance of
seeking union and attachment. (We seem to see in it) the king
urging his pursuit of the game (only) in three directions, and allow-
Ing the escape of all the animals before him, while the people of his
towns do not warn one another (to prevent it). There will be good
fortune,

“The good fortune belonging to the most illustrious instance of
Seeking union and attachment’ appears in the correct and central
Position (of the fifth line, undivided).

(The king's) neglecting (the animals) confronting him (and then
fleeing), and (only) taking those who present themselves as it were
obediently, is seen in ‘his allowing the escape of those in front of
80 Py

him.” “That the people of his towns do not warn one another (t,
prevent such escape),’ shows how he, in his high eminence, hag
made them pursue the due course.

Six at the top:

In the topmost line, divided, we see one seeking union and attach.
ment without having taken the first step (to such an end). There
will be evil.

‘He seeks union and attachment without taking the first (step to
such an end): — there is no possibility of a (good) issue.

LEGGE'S NOTES

The idea of union between the different members and classes of a state,
and how it can be secured, is the subject of the hexagram Pi. The whole line
occupying the fifth place, or that of authority, in the hexagram, represents
the ruler to whom the subjects of all the other lines offer a ready submission.
According to the general rules for the symbolism of the lines, the second
line is the correlate of the fifth; but all the other lines are here made subject
to that fifth; — which is also a law of the /, according to the ‘Daily Lecture’
To me it has the suspicious look of being made for the occasion. The har-
mony of union, therefore, is to be secured by the sovereign authority of one;
but he is warned to see to it that his virtue be what will beseem his place,
and subjects are warned not to delay to submit to him.

Where does the ‘sincerity’ predicated of the subject of line 1 come from?
The ‘earthenware vessel’ is supposed to indicate its plain, unadorned char-
acter; but there ds nothing in the position and n_ture of the line, beyond the
general idea in the figure, to suggest the attribute.

Line 2 is the proper correlate of 5. Its position in the centre of the inner
or lower trigram agrees with the movement of its subject as proceeding
from the inward mind.

Line 3 is weak, not in the centre, nor in its correct place. The lines above
and below it ‘are both weak. All these things are supposed to account for
what 1s said on it.

‘The one beyond himself’ in line 4 is the ruler or king, who is the sub-
ject of 5, and with whom union ought to be sought. The divided line, more-
over, is in a place proper to it. If its subject be firm and correct, there will be
good fortune.

The subject of line § is the king, who must be the centre of union. The
ancient kings had their great hunting expeditions in the different seasons;
and that of each season had its peculiar rules. But what is stated here was
common to all. When the beating was completed, and the shooting was
ready to commence, one side of the enclosure into which the game had been
driven was left open and unguarded; —a proof of the royal benevolence
which did not want to make an end of all the game. So well known and un-
derstood is this benevolence of the model king of the hexagram, that all his
people try to give it effect. Thus the union contemplated is shown to be
Ps 81

characterised by mutual confidence and appreciation in virtue and benev-
olence.

A weak line being in the 6th place, which is appropriate to it, its subject
is supposed to be trying to promote union among and with the subjects of
the lines below. It is too late. The time is past. Hence it is symbolised as
‘yithout a head,’ that is, as not having taken the first step, from which its
action should begin, and go on to the end.

On the Commentary

There is some error in the text here,—as all the critics acknowledge. I
have adopted the decision of Chu Hsi, which by a very smal] change makes
the whole read consistently, and in harmony with other explanations of the
(Judgment). ‘The inferiors’ are the subjects of all the other lines gathering
round their superior, represented in the fifth line.

‘The way has been exhausted: —they do not seek to promote and enjoy
union till it is too late. The sentiment is the same as that in the lines of
Shakespeare about the tide in the affairs of men.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘Water upon the face of the earth’ is supposed to be an emblem of close
union. Of the mere fact of close union this may be accepted as a fair illus-
tration, and of its completeness. Some other symbolism might set forth
better the tendency of parties to union, and their seeking it. What is said
about the ancient kings is more pertinent to thé meaning of the hexagram
than in many other applications in ‘the Great Symbolism.’ The king ap-
pears in it not only as the centre, but as the cause, of union.

“The other advantages’ under line | refer to all the benefits that will
result from sincerity and union, which are in themselves good.

It is hardly possible to make what is said under line 5, on the royal hunt-
ings, agree with the account of them given on the same line in the duke of
Chou’s text. I suspect that there is some corruption of the text. The two
verbs ‘neglecting’ and ‘taking’ seem to be used, the one for the other.
oo

2 Hsiao Cy;

, hes

HSIAO CH’U
The Taming Force (Small Restraint)

Component Trigrams

Above: Sun — wind, gentle, wood, penetration

Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

JUDGMENT

Hsiao Ch’u indicates that (under its conditions) there will be
progress and success. (We see) dense clouds, but no rain coming
from our borders in the west.

COMMENTARY

In Hsiao Ch’u the weak line occupies its (proper) position, and
{the lines) above and below respond to it. Hence comes the name
of Hsiao Ch’u (Small Restraint).

(It presents the symbols of) strength and flexibility. Strong lines
are in the central places, and the will (of their subjects) will have
free course. Thus it indicates that there will be progress and suc-
cess.

‘Dense clouds but no rain’ indicate the movement (of the strong
lines) still going forward. The ‘Commencing at our western border’
indicates that the (beneficial) influence has not yet been widely
displayed.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of} the sky, and that representing wind moving
above it, form Hsiao Ch’u. The superior man, in accordance with
this, adorns the outward manifestation of his virtue.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows its subject returning and pursu-
Hs1a0 CH'U 83

ing his own course. What mistake should he fall into? There will
pe good fortune.

‘He returns and pursues his own path:’—it is right that there
should be good fortune.

Nine in the second place:
The second line, undivided, shows its subject, by the attraction
(of the former line), returning (to the proper course). There will be
ood fortune.
‘By the attraction (of the subject of the former line) he returns
{to its own course), and is in the central place: — neither will he err
in what is due from him.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, suggests the idea of a carriage, the
strap beneath which has been removed, or of a husband and wife
looking on each other with averted eyes.

‘Husband and wife look on each other with averted eyes:’—
(the subject of line three is like a husband who) cannot maintain
correctly his relations with his wife.

* Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject possessed of sincerity.
The danger of bloodshed is thereby averted, and his (ground for)
apprehension dismissed. There will be no mistake.

‘He is possessed of sincerity; his (ground for) apprehension is
dismissed:’ — (the subjects of the lines) above agree in aim with him.

O Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject possessed of sincerity,
and drawing others to unite with him. Rich in resources, he em-
ploys his neighbours (in the same cause with himself).

‘He is possessed of sincerity, and draws others to unite with
him: _ he does not use only his own rich resources.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows how the rain has fallen, and
the (onward progress) is stayed; —(so) must we value the full ac-
Cumulation of the virtue (represented by the upper trigram). But a
wife (exercising restraint), however firm and correct she may be, is
In a position of peril, (and like) the moon approaching to the full.

fthe superior man prosecute his measures (in such circumstances),
there will be evil.

“The rain has fallen and (the onward progress) is stayed: —the
Power (denoted in the figure) has accumulated to the full. ‘If the
84 Hsiao Cw

superior man prosecute his measures, there will be evil” —he wij)
find himself obstructed.

LEGGE'S NOTES

The name Hsiao Ch'u is interpreted as meaning ‘small restraint.” The
idea of ‘restraint’ having once been determined on as that to be conveyed
by the figure, it is easily made out that the restraint must be small, for its
representative is the divided line in the fourth place; and the check given
by that to all the undivided lines cannot be great. Even if we suppose, as
many critics do, that all the virtue of that upper trigram Sun is concentrated
in its first line, the attribute ascribed to Sun is that of docile flexibility,
which cannot long be successful against the strength emblemed by the
lower trigram Chien. The restraint therefore is small, and in the end there
will be ‘progress and success.’

The second sentence of the [Judgment] contains indications of the place,
time, personality of the writer which it seems possible to ascertain. The fief
of Chou was the western portion of the kingdom of Yin or Shang, the China
of the twelfth century B.c., the era of King Wen. Rain coming and moisten-
ing the ground is the cause of the beauty and luxuriance of the vegetable
world, and the emblem of the blessings flowing from good training and
good government. Here therefore in the west, the hereditary territory of
the house of Chou, are blessings which might enrich the whole kingdom;
but they are somehow restrained. The dense clouds do not empty their
stores.

P. Regis says: — ‘To declare openly that no rain fell from the heavens
long covered with dense clouds over the great tract of country, which
stretched from the western border to the court and on to the eastern sea,
was nothing else but leaving it to all thoughtful minds to draw the conclu-
sion that the family of Wen was as worthy of the supreme seat as that of
Shou, the tyrant, however ancient, was unworthy of it (vol. i, p. 356).” The
intimation is not put in the Text, however, so clearly as by P. Regis.

Line 1 is undivided, the first line of Ch'ien, occupying its proper place.
Its subject, therefore, notwithstanding the check of line 4, resumes his
movement, and will act according to his strong nature, and go forward.

Line 2 is also strong, and though an even place is not appropriate to it,
that place being central, its subject will make common cause with the sub-
ject of line 1; and there will be good fortune.

Line 3, though strong, and in a proper place, yet not being in the centre,
is supposed to be less able to resist the restraint of line 4; and hence it has
the ill omens that are given.

The subject of line 4, one weak line against all He's strong lines of the
hexagram, might well expect wounds, and feel apprehension i in trying to
restrain the others; but it is in its proper place; it is the first line also of
Sun, whose attribute is docile flexibility. The strong lines are moved to
sympathy and help, and ‘there is no mistake.’

Line 5 occupies the central place of Sun, and converts, by the sincerity
Hs1a0 CHU 85

of its subject, 4 and 6 into its neighbours, who suffer themselves to be used
py it; and effect their common object.

In line 6, the idea of the hexagram has run its course. The harmony of
pature is restored. The rain falls, and the onward march of the strong lines
should now stop. But weakness that has achieved such a result, if it plume
itself on it, will be in a position of peril; and like the full moon, which must
henceforth wane. Let the superior man, when he has attained his end, re-
main in quiet.

On the Commentary

“The weak line’ is said to occupy ‘its proper position,’ because it is in the
fourth, —an even place. The ‘responding’ on the part of all the other lines
above and below is their submitting to be restrained by it; and this arises
simply from the meaning which King Wen chose to attach to the hexagram.

But the restraint can only be small. The attributes of the two parts of the
figure do not indicate anything else. The undivided line represents vigour
and activity, and such a line is in the middle of each trigram. There cannot
but be progress and success.

It is not easy to explain the symbolism of the last paragraph in harmony
with the appended explanations. What Ch’eng-tzu, Wang Feng, and other
scholars say is to this effect: — Dense clouds ought to give rain. That they
exist without doing so, shows the restraining influence of the hexagram to
be still at work. But the other and active influence is, according to the gen-
eral idea of the figure, continuing in operation; — there will be rain ere long.
And this was taking place in the western regions subject to the House of
Chou, which still was only a fief of Shang. It was not for the inferior House
to rule the superior. Chou was for a time restrained by Shang. Let their
positions be reversed by Chou superseding Shang, and the rain of benefi-
cent government would descend on all the kingdom. This seems to be the
Meaning of the paragraph. This is the answer to the riddle of it. Confucius,
in his [Commentary on the Judgment], hints at it, but no Chinese critic has
the boldness to declare it fully.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The suitability of the symbolism here is made all to turn on the wind.
Wind, says Chu Hsi, ‘is simply the air, without solid substance; it can
Testrain, but not for long.” The wind moves in the sky for a time, and then
Ceases. The process of thought from the symbol to the lesson is not easily
traced. Is it meant to say that virtue manifesting itself outwardly —in the
carriage and speech — is, however good, but a small matter, admirable in an
officer, or even a feudal lord, but that we look for more in a king, the Head
of a nation?

_ Ch'eng-tzu calls attention to the addition to the duke of Chou’s explana-
tion in the notice on line 2, that ‘it is in the central place,” adding that this
¢xplains how the subject of the line restrains himself, and does not go
beyond what is du€ from him.

_ Only half of the symbolism in the Text of line 3 is taken up here. Line 1,
161s said, is far from line 4, the mauwvais sujet of the hexagram, and little af-

¢
86 Hsiao Cy’,

fected by it; line 2 is nearer, but, being in the centre, suffers little; line 3 jg
close on it, and, not being in the centre, comes under its evil influence,
while line 6 gives no help.

Line 4 is weak, and in an even place, appropriate to it; and hence it;
subject is said to ‘have sincerity.’ Being the first line, moreover, of Sun, the
two others take their character from it.

Line 5, being undivided, and occupying the most important place in the
figure, according to the value usually attached to the lines, is said ‘to be
rich,’ or ‘to have rich resources.’ With these he unites with the ‘subjects’ of
line 4 to effect their common object.

Under line 6 we are told that the restraint is at its height, and the re-
strained should keep still for a time. The paragraph is metrical. The para-
graphs to lines 1, 2, 3, all rhyme together. So do those to 4, 5; and now un-
der 6, we have a couplet: —

“Lo! rain, lo! rest, the power is full!
Good man! hold hard. Obstructions rule.’
87

LY

T°
—— LU
—— Treading Carefully

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

hl

Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

(Lu suggests the idea of) one treading on the tail of a tiger, which
does not bite him. There will be progress and success.

COMMENTARY

In Li we have (the symbol of) weakness treading on (that of)
strength.

(The lower trigram) indicates pleasure and satisfaction, and
responds to (the upper) indicating strength. Hence (it is said), ‘He
treads on the tail of a tiger, which does not bite him; there will be
progress and success.’

(The fifth line is) strong, in the centre, and in its correct place.
(Its subject) occupies the God-(given) position, and falls into no
distress or failure; — (his) action will be brilliant.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the sky above, and below it (that representing
the waters of) a marsh, form Lit. The superior man, in accordance
with this, discriminates between high and low, and gives settle-
Ment to the aims of the people.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows its subject treading his accus-
tomed path. If he go forward, there will be no error.
88 Li

‘He treads his accustomed path and goes forward: — singly ang
exclusively he carries out his (long-cherished) wishes.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject treading the path
that is level and easy; —a quiet and solitary man, to whom, if he be
firm and correct, there will be good fortune.

‘A quiet and solitary man, to whom, being firm and correct,
there will be good fortune:’ —holding the due mean, he will not
allow himself to be thrown into disorder.

® Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows a one-eyed man (who thinks he)
can see; a lame man (who thinks he) can walk well; one who treads
on the tail of a tiger and is bitten. (All this indicates) ill fortune.
We have a (mere) bravo acting the part of a great ruler.

‘A one-eyed man (who thinks that he) can see:’—he is not fit to
see clearly. ‘A lame man (who thinks that he can) tread well’ — one
cannot walk along with him. “The ill fortune of being bitten’ arises
from the place not being the proper one for him. ‘A (mere) bravo
acting the part of a great ruler.’ — this is owing to his aims being
(too) violent,

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject treading on the tail
of a tiger. He becomes full of apprehensive caution, and in the end
there will be good fortune.

He becomes full of apprehensive caution, and in the end there
will be good fortune:”— his aim takes effect.

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows the resolute tread of its subject.
Though he be firm and correct, there will be peril.

‘He treads resolutely; and though he be firm and correct, there
is peril:’—this is due to his being in the position that is correct
and appropriate to him.

Nine at the rop:

The sixth line, undivided, tells us to look at (the whole course)
that is trodden, and examine the presage which that gives. If it be
complete and without failure, there will be great good fortune.

“There will be great good fortune,” and that in the occupancy of
the topmost line: — this is great matter for congratulation.
Li 89

LEGGE'SNOTES

The character giving its name to the hexagram plays an important part
Jlso in the symbolism; and this may be the reason why it does not, as the
name, occupy the first place in the [Judgment]. Looking at the figure, we see
it is made up of the trigrems Tui, representing a marsh, and Ch'ien, repre-
senting the sky. Tui is a yin trigram, and its top line is divided. Below
Chien, the great symbol of strength, it may readily suggest the idea of
treading on a tiger's tail, which was an old way of expressing what was
hazardous (Shu, V, xxv, 2.). But what suggests the statement that ‘the tiger
does not bite the treader?’” The attribute of Tui is pleased satisfaction. Of
course such an attribute could not be predicated of one who was in the
fangs of a tiger. The coming scatheless out of such danger further suggests
the idea of ‘progress and success’ in the course which King Wen had in his
mind. And according to [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in
Part IV], that course was ‘propriety,’ the observance of all the rules of
courtesy. On these, as so many stepping-stones, one may tread safely amid
scenes of disorder and peril.

Line 1 is an undivided line in an odd place; giving us the ideas of activity,
firmness, and correctness. One so characterised will act rightly.

Line 2 occupies the middle place of the trigram, which is supposed to
symbolise a path cut straight and level along the hill-side, or over difficult
ground. Line 5 is not a proper correlate, and hence the idea of the subject
of 2 being ‘a quiet and solitary man.’

Line 3 is neither central nor in an even place, which would be proper to
it. But with the strength of will which the occupant of an odd place should
possess, he goes forward with the evil results so variously emblemed. The
editors of the imperial edition, in illustration of the closing sentence, refer
to Analects VII, x.

Line 4 is in contiguity with 5, whose subject is in the place of authority;
but he occupies the place proper to a weak or divided line, and hence he
bethinks himself, and goes softly.

Beneath the symbolism under line 5, lies the principle that the most
€xcellent thing in ‘propriety’ is humility. And the subject of the line, which
1s strong and central, will not be lacking in this, but bear in mind that the
higher he is exalted, the greater may be his fall.

What is said on line 6 is good, but is only a truism. The whole course has
been shown; if every step has been right and appropriate, the issue will be
very good.

On the Commentary
‘(The symbol of) weakness’ in paragraph 1, according to Wang Shen-tzu
Uan dynasty) is line 3, urged by the two strong lines below, and having
to encounter the three strong lines above. Hu Ping-wen (also of the Yuan
Ynasty) says that the whole of the lower trigram, Tui, partaking of the
Yn nature, is the symbol of weakness, and the whole of Ch’ien that of
90 Li

strength. The Cheh-Chung editors say that, to get the full meaning; we
must hold both views.

Paragraph 3 has been explained; but there remains something to be saig
on the Chinese text for ‘occupies the God-given position,’ or, literally,
‘treads on the seat of Ti.’ Canon McClatchie has— “The imperial throne js
now occupied.’ I think that ‘the seat of Ti’ is synonymous with ‘the seat of
Heaven,’ in paragraph 2 of this treatise on hexagram 5. If Confucius, or
whoever was the writer, had before him the phrase as it occurs in the Shy,
I, 12, the force of Ti will depend on the meaning assigned to it in that part
of the Shu. That the fifth line occupies the place of authority is here the
only important point.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘The sky above and a marsh lying below it is true,’ says Ch’eng-tzu, ‘in
nature and reason; and so should be the rules of propriety on which men
tread.” This symbolism is far-fetched; and so is the application of it, if in
any way drawn from it. But it is true that the members of a community or
nation must keep their several places and duties in order to its being ina
state of good order.

If we might translate the conclusion of what is said on line 5, by — ‘in the
position that is correctly appropriate to him,’ the meaning would be more
clear, though still the assumption which I have pointed out on the Text
would underlie the statement; and as evidently as there, what is said under
line 6 is but a truism.
T’al 91

-— = 11
~~ TAl

— Peace

mr

Component Trigrams

— —

— — Above: K'un— the earth, female, passive, receptive

—

——— Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

JUDGMENT

In T ai (we see) the little gone and the great come. (It indicates
that) there will be good fortune, with progress and success.

COMMENTARY

‘The little come and the great gone in T’ai, and its indication
that there will be good fortune with progress and success’ show to
us heaven and earth in communication with each other, and all
things in consequence having free course, and (also) the high and
the low, (superiors and inferiors), in communication with one
another, and possessed by the same aim. The inner (trigram) is
made up of the strong and undivided lines, and the outer of the
weak and divided; the inner is (the symbol of) strength, and the
outer of docility; the inner (represents) the superior man, and the
outer the small man. (Thus) the way of the superior man appears
Increasing, and that of the small man decreasing.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] heaven and earth in communication together
form T’ai. The (sage) sovereign, in harmony with this, fashions
and completes (his regulations) after the courses of heaven and
€arth, and assists the application of the adaptations furnished by
them, — in order to benefit the people.
92 TT,

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, suggests the idea of grass pulled up
and bringing with it other stalks with whose roots it is connected
Advance (on the part of its subject) will be fortunate.

“The good fortune of advance, (as suggested by the emblem of)
the grass pulled up,” arises from the will (of the party intended,
being set on what is external to himself.

© Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows one who can bear with the
uncultivated, will cross the Ho without a boat, does not forget the
distant, and has no (selfish) friendships. Thus does he prove hing
self acting in accordance with the course of the due Mean.

‘He bears with the uncultivated, and proves himself acting in
accordance with the due mean: —for (his intelligence is) bright
and (his capacity is) great.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows that, while there is no state of
peace that is not liable to be disturbed, and no departure (of evil
men) so that they shall not return, yet when one is firm and correct,
as he realises the distresses that may arise, he will commit no error.
There is no occaston for sadness at the certainty (of such recurring
changes); and in this mood the happiness (of the present) may be
(long) enjoyed.

‘There is no going away so that there shall not be a return’ refers
to this as the point where the interaction of heaven and earth takes
place. :

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject fluttering (down); —
not relying on his own rich resources, but calling in his neighbours.
(They all come) not as having received warning, but in the sincerity
(of their hearts).

‘He comes fluttering (down), not relying on his own rich re-
sources:’— both he and his neighbours are out of their real (place
where they are). ‘They have not received warning, but (come) in
the sincerity (of their hearts):’ — this is what they have desired in
the core of their hearts.

© Six in the fifth place:
The fifth line, divided, reminds us of (King) Ti-yi’s (rule about
T Al 93

the) marriage of his younger sister. By such a course there is hap-
iness and there will be great good fortune.

P ‘By such a course there is happiness, and there will be great
cod fortune: — (the subject of the line) employs the virtue proper
to his central position to carry his wishes into effect.

§ix at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows us the city wall returned into the
moat. It is not the time to use the army. (The subject of the line)
may, indeed, announce his orders to the people of his own city;
but however correct and firm he may be, he will have cause for

regret.
“The city wall returned back into the moat’ shows how the

(governmental) orders have (long) been in disorder.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The language of the [Judgment] has reference to the form of T ai, with
the three strong lines of Ch’ien below, and the three weak lines of K'un
above. The former are ‘the great,” active and vigorous; the latter are ‘the
small,’ inactive and submissive. But where have the former ‘come’ from,
and whither are the latter ‘gone?’ In many editions of the / beneath the
hexagram of T’ai here, there appears that of Kuei Mei, the 54th in order,
which becomes Tai, if the third and fourth lines exchange places. But in
the notes on the [Commentary for] hexagram 6, I have spoken of the doc-
trine of ‘changing figures,” and intimated my disbelief of it. The different
hexagrams arose necessarily by the continued manipulation of the un-
divided and divided lines, and placing them each over itself and over the
other, When King Wen wrote these [Judgments], he was taking the 64
hexagrams, as they were ready to his hand, and not forming one from an-
other by any process of divination. The ‘gone’ and ‘come’ are merely equiv-
alent to ‘below’ and ‘above,’ in the lower trigram or in the upper.

A course in which the motive forces are represented by the three strong,
and the opposing by the three weak lines, must be progressive and success-
ful. Tai is called the hexagram of the first month of the year, the first month
of the natural spring, when for six months, through the fostering sun and
genial skies, the processes of growth will be going on.

The symbolism of paragraph 1 is suggested by the three strong lines of
Chien all together, and all possessed by the same instinct to advance. The
Movement of the first will be supported by that of the others, and be
fortunate.

The second line is strong, but in an even place. This is supposed to
temper the strength of its subject; which is expressed by the first of his
characteristics. But the even place is the central; and it is responded to by a
Proper correlate in the fifth line above. Hence come all the symbolism of
the paragraph and the auspice of good fortune implied in it.
94 Tay

Beneath the symbolism in paragraph 3 there lies the persuasion of the
constant change that is taking place in nature and in human affairs. As
night succeeds to day, and winter to summer, so calamity may be expected
to follow prosperity, and decay the flourishing of a state. The third is the
last of the lines of Ch’ien, by whose strength and activity the happy state
of T’ai has been produced. Another aspect of things may be looked for; but
by firmness and correctness the good estate of the present may be long
continued.

According to the [Commentary], the subjects of the fourth and other
upper lines are not ‘the small returning’ as opponents of the strong lines
below, as is generally supposed; but as the correlates of those lines, of one
heart and mind with them to maintain the state of T’ai, and giving them,
humbly but readily, all the help in their power.

Ti-i, the last sovereign but one of the Yin dynasty, reigned from B.c.
1191 to 1155; but what was the history of him and his sister here referred
to we do not know. P. Regis assumes that he gave his sister in marriage to
the lord of Chou, known in subsequent time as King Wen, and that she was
the famous T’ai-ssu;—contrary to all the evidence I have been able to find
on the subject. According to Ch’eng-tzu, Ti-i was the first to enact a law
that daughters of the royal house, in marrying princes of the states, should
be in subjection to them, as if they were not superior to them in rank. Here
line 5, while occupying the place of dignity and authority in the hexagram,
is yet a weak line in the place of a strong one; and its subject, accordingly,
humbly condescends to his strong and proper correlate in line 2.

The course denoted by T’ai has been run; and will be followed by one
of a different and unhappy character. The earth dug from the moat had
been built up to form a protecting wall; but it is now again fallen into the
ditch. War will only aggravate the evil; and however the ruler may address
good proclamations to himself and the people of his capital, the coming evil
cannot be altogether averted.

On the Commentary

There is nothing to be said on the explanation of the [Judgment] here
beyond what has been noticed on the different paragraphs of the Text.
Canon McClatchie translates: ‘The [Judgment] means that Heaven and
Earth have now conjugal intercourse with each other ....and the upper
and lower (classes) unite together.’ But in both clauses the Chinese charac-
ters are the same. Why did he not go on to say —‘the upper and lower
classes have conjugal intercourse together; or rather, why did he not dis-
miss the idea of such intercourse from his mind altogether? Why make the
/ appear to be gross, when there is not the shadow of grossness in it? The
paragraph here well illustrates how the ruling idea in all the antinomies of
the / is that of authority and strength on the one side, and of inferiority and
weakness on the other.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

It is difficult to translate the application of ‘the Great Symbolism’ here,
so that it shall be intelligible to a reader. Ch’eng-tzu says: —‘A ruler should
frame his laws and regulations so that the people may avail themselves of
Tal 95

the seasons of heaven, and of the advantages afforded by the earth, assisting
their transforming and nourishing services, and completing their abundant
and admirable benefits. Thus the breath of spring, calling forth all vegetable
life, gives the law for sowing and planting; the breath of autumn, com-
pleting and solidifying all things, gives the law for ingathering and stor-
ing, &c.

® rhe subject of line 1 has ‘his will on what is external to himself: —he is
bent on going forward.

Chu Hsi explains what is said on paragraph 4, that the upper lines ‘are
out of their real place where they are,’ or, literally, ‘have lost their sub-
stantiality,” by the remark that ‘their proper place, as being weak lines, is
below.” The editors of the imperial edition prefer another explanation, on
which I need not enter.
96 Py

——— 12
—— P’l
<= = Stagnation

Component Trigrams
i

Above: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active
— —~ Below: Kun —the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

In P’i there is the want of good understanding between the (dif-
ferent classes of) men, and its indication is unfavourable to the firm
and correct course of the superior man. We see in it the great gone
and the little come.

COMMENTARY

“The want of good understanding between the (different classes
of) men in P’1, and its indication as unfavourable to the firm and
correct course of the superior man; with the intimation that the
great are gone and the little come:’—all this springs from the fact
that in it heaven and earth are not in communication with each
other, and all things in consequence do not have free course; and
that the high and the low (superiors and inferiors) are not in com-
munication with one another, and there are no (well-regulated)
states under the sky. The inner (trigram) is made up of the weak
and divided lines, and the outer of the strong and undivided: the
inner is (the symbol of) weakness, and the outer of strength; the
inner (represents) the small man, and the outer the superior man.
Thus the way of the smali man appears increasing, and that of the
superior man decreasing.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] heaven and earth, not in intercommunication,
form P’i. The superior man, in accordance with this, restrains (the
manifestation of) his virtue, and avoids the calamities (that
pr 97

threaten him). There is no opportunity of conferring on him the
glory of emolument.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, suggests the idea of grass pulled up, and
bringing with it other stalks with whose roots it is connected. With
firm correctness (on the part of its subject), there will be good
fortune and progress.

‘The good fortune through firm goodness, (suggested by) the
pulling up of the grass, arises from the will (of the parties intended)
being bent on (serving) the ruler.

o Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject patient and obedient.
To the small man (comporting himself so) there will be good for-
tune. If the great man (comport himself) as the distress and obstruc-
tion require, he will have success.

“The great man, comporting himself as the distress and obstruc-
tion require, will have success:”—he does not allow himself to be
disordered by the herd (of small men).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject ashamed of the pur-
pose folded (in his breast).

That ‘his shame is folded in his breast’ is owing to the inappro-
priateness of his position.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject acting in accord-
ance with the ordination (of Heaven), and committing no error.
His companions will come and share in his happiness.

‘He acts in accordance with the ordination (of Heaven), and
commits no error: —the purpose of his mind can be carried into
effect.

ONine in the fifth place:
"In the fifth line, undivided, we see him who brings the distress
and obstruction to a close, —the great man and fortunate. (But let
him say), ‘We may perish! We may perish!’ (so shall the state of
things become firm, as if) bound to a clump of bushy mulberry
trees.

‘The good fortune of the great man’ arises from the correctness
of his position.
98 P';

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows the overthrow (and removal of)
the condition of distress and obstruction. Before this there was that
condition. Hereafter there will be joy.

“The distress and obstruction having reached its end, it is over-
thrown and removed:’ — how could it be prolonged?

LEGGE’S NOTES

The form of Pi, it will be seen, is exactly the opposite of that of T ai.
Much of what has been said on the interpretation of that will apply to this,
or at least assist the student in making out the meaning of its symbolism.
P’i is the hexagram of the seventh month. Genial influences have done
their work, the processes of growth are at an end. Henceforth increasing
decay must be looked for.

Naturally we should expect the advance of the subject of the first of the
three weak lines to lead to evil; but if he set himself to be firm and correct,
he will bring about a different issue.

Patience and obedience are proper for the small man in all circumstances.
If the great man in difficulty yet cherish these attributes, he will soon have
a happy issue out of the distress.

The third line is weak. Its place is odd, and therefore for it incorrect.
Its subject would vent his evil purpose, but has not strength to do so. He
is left therefore to the shame which he ought to feel without a word of
warning. Does the ming of the fourth line mean ‘the ordination of Heaven,
as Chu Hsi thinks; or the orders of the ruler, as Ch’eng-tzu says? Which-
ever interpretation be taken (and some critics unite the two), the action of
the subject of the line, whose strength is tempered by the even position,
will be good and correct, and issue.in success and happiness.

The strong line in the fifth, (its correct), place, brings the distress and
obstruction to a close. Yet its subject—the ruler in the hexagram —is
warned to continue to be cautious in two lines of rhyme: —

‘And let him say, “I die! I die!”
So to a bushy clump his fortune he shall tie’

There is an end of the condition of distress. It was necessary that con-
dition should give place to its opposite; and the strong line in the topmost
place fitly represents the consequent joy.

On the Commentary

All the symbolism here springs from the trigram K’un occupying in the
figure the inner or lower place, and Ch’ien the outer or upper. It is for the
inner trigram to take the initiative; but how can earth (symbolised by
K’un) take the place of heaven (symbolised by Ch’ien)? As in nature it is
heaven that originates and not earth, so in a state the upper classes must
take the initiative, and not the lower.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines
“The Great Symbolism’ here is sufficiently explained in the [Commentary
p’r 99

and notes on it]. The application, however, is here again difficult, though
we may try to find in it a particular instance of the interruption of com-
munication, — in great merit not meeting with its reward.

The subject of the first line is one of the cluster of small men who are
able to change their mind, and set their hearts to love their ruler.

The subject of the second line is a ‘great man,’ and occupies the place
in the centre.

The subject of the third line is weak, and does not occupy his correct

osition; — hence the symbolism.

The fourth line is near the fifth, the ruler’s place. It is a strong line in
an even place; but acting according to the will of Heaven or of the ruler,
its subject gets his purpose carried out.

The subject of the fifth line is the great man, the ruler in his right place.
Hence he is successful, and in the Jast line, we see how the distress and
obstruction are come to an end. It was in the order of change that they
should do so.
~~

00 T’uNG Jey
Wa] /-
@ p=
13

TUNG JEN
Companionship

 

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch'ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

Below: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

 

JUDGMENT

T’ung Jen (or ‘Union of men’) appears here (as we find it) in the
(remote districts of the) country, indicating progress and success.
It will be advantageous to cross the great stream. It will be advan-
tageous to maintain the firm correctness of the superior man.

COMMENTARY

In T'ung Jen the weak (line) has the place (of influence), the
central place, and responds to (the corresponding line in) Ch'’ien
(above); hence comes its name of Tung Jen (or ‘Union of men’).

T'ung Jen says: —

The language, “T"ung Jen appears here (as we find it) in (the
remote districts of) the country, indicating progress and success,
and that it will be advantageous to cross the great stream,’ is
moulded by its containing the strength (symbolled) in Ch’ien.
(Then) we have (the trigram indicating) elegance and intelligence:
supported by (that indicating) strength; with the line in the cen-
tral, and its correct, position, and responding (to the corresponding
line above): — (all representing) the correct course of the superiof
man. It is only the superior man who can comprehend and affect
the minds of all under the sky.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] heaven and fire form T’ung Jen. The superiof
man, in accordance with this, distinguishes things according t0
their kinds and classes.
T'uNG JEN 101

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

‘The first line, undivided, (shows the representative of) the union
of men just issuing from his gate. There will be no error.

(The representative of) the union of men is just issuing from
his gate:’ — who will blame him?

o Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, (shows the representative of) the union
of men in relation with his kindred. There will be occasion for
regret.

‘(The representative of) the union of men appears in relation
with his kindred:’ — that is the path to regret.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, (shows its subject) with his arms
hidden in the thick grass, and at the top of a high mound. (But) for
three years he makes no demonstration.

‘He hides his arms in the thick grass:’ — because of the strength
of his opponent. ‘For three years he makes no demonstration:’ —
how can he do anything?

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, (shows its subject) mounted on the
city wall; but he does not proceed to make the attack (he contem-
plates). There will be good fortune.

‘He is mounted on his city-wall;’ but yielding to the right, ‘he
does not proceed to make the attack (he contemplated).” (Where it
is said), “There will be good fortune, (that shows how) he feels the
strait he is in, and returns to the rule of law.

O Nine in the fifth place:

In the fifth line, undivided, (the representative of) the union of
men first wails and cries out, and then laughs. His great host
conquers, and he (and the subject of the second line) meet together.

The first action of (the representative of) the union of men (here
described) arises from his central position and straightforward
character. “The meeting secured by his great host’ intimates that
the opponents of it have been overcome.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, (shows the representative of) the
union of men in the suburbs. There will be no occasion for re-
pentance.
102 T’unG JEN

(The representative of) the union of men appears in the sub-
urbs:’— his object has not yet been attained.

LEGGE’S NOTES

T'ung Jen describes a condition of nature and of the state opposite
to that of P’i. There was distress and obstruction; here is union. But the
union must be based entirely on public considerations, without taint of
selfishness.

The strong line in the fifth, its correct, place, occupies the most impor-
tant position, and has for its correlate the weak second line, also in its
correct place. The one divided line is naturally sought after by all the strong
lines. The upper trigram is that of heaven, which is above; the lower is that
of fire, whose tendency is to mount upwards. All these things are in har-
mony with the idea of union. But the union must be free from all selfish
motives, and this is indicated by its being in the remote districts of the
country, where people are unsophisticated, and free from the depraving
effects incident to large societies. A union from such motives will cope
with the greatest difficulties; and yet a word of caution is added.

Line 1 emblems the first attempts at union. It is strong, but in the lowest
place; and it has no proper correlate above. There is, however, no inter-
mixture of selfishness in it.

Lines 2 and 5 are proper correlates, which fact suggests in this hexagram
the idea of their union being limited and partial, and such as may afford
ground for blame.

Line 3 is strong, and in an odd place; but it has not a proper correlate
in 6. This makes its subject more anxious to unite with 2; but 2 is devoted
to its proper correlate in §, of whose strength 3 is afraid, and takes the
measures described. His abstaining so long, however, from any active at-
tempt, will save him from misfortune.

Line 4 is strong, but in an even place, which weakens its subject. He
also would fain make an attempt on 2; but he is afraid, and does not carry
his purpose into effect.

Line § is strong, in an odd, and the central place; and would fain unite
with 2, which indeed is the proper correlate of its subject. But 3 and 4 are
powerful foes that oppose the union. Their opposition makes him weep;
but he collects his forces, defeats them, and effects his purpose. -

The union reaches to all within the suburbs, and is not yet universal;
but still there is no cause for repentance.

On the Commentary

To understand the various points in this commentary, it is only neces-
sary to refer to the Text of the hexagram. The proper correlate of line 2 is
line 5, and I have said therefore that it ‘responds to (the corresponding line
in) Chien.’ The editors of the K'ang-hsi edition, however, would make the
correlate to it all the lines of Chien, as being more agreeable to the idea
of union. :
T’unc JEN 103

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The style of ‘heaven and fire form T’ung Jen’ is such as to suggest the
appearance of fire ascending up, blazing to the sky, and uniting with it.
The application of the symbolism is again perplexing.

In line 1, the party just issuing from his gate has all the world before
him, with which to unite. Selfish thoughts disposing to union have no place
in him.

In line 2, union (only) with kindred implies narrowness of mind.

For line 3, see note on the Text.

In line 4, stress should be laid on ‘yielding to the right.’

For line 5, see note on the Text.

The K’ang-hsi editors append the following note to the last paragraph:
—‘Under line 1 it is said that “union in the open country indicates progress
and success,” while here it is only said that “with union in the suburbs
there is no cause for repentance.” Beyond the suburbs was the open coun-
try, and till the union reached so far, the object of the hexagram was not
attained. We may truly say that Confucius was a skilful reader of the duke
of Chou,’ Of course the editors did not doubt Confucius’ authorship of
[the Commentary, the Great and Lesser Symbolism, and the material in
Part IV of this edition].
~~

04 Ta

A

14
TA YU
Great Possession (Abundance)

Component Trigrams

Above: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

  
  
   

JUDGMENT

Ta Yu indicates that, (under the circumstances which it im
plies), there will be great progress and success.

COMMENTARY

In Ta Yu the weak (line) has the place of honour, is grandly
central, and (the strong lines) above and below respond to it
Hence comes its name of Ta Yu (Having what is Great).

The attributes (of its component trigrams) are strength and
vigour with elegance and brightness. (The ruling line in it) 1¢
sponds to (the ruling line in the symbol of) heaven, and (cons®
quently) its action is (all) at the proper times. In this way (it is said
to) indicate great progress and success.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] heaven and (that of) fire above it form Ta Yu
The superior man, in accordance with this, represses what is ev?
and gives distinction to what is good, in sympathy with the e¥
cellent Heaven-conferred (nature).

THE LINES

Nine in the first place: .

In the first line, undivided, there is no approach to what is
jurious, and there is no error. Let there be a realisation of the dif
ficulty (and danger of the position), and there will be no error (to
the end).
Ta Yu 105

This first line, undivided, of Ta Yu shows no approach to what
is injurious.
Nine in the second place:

In the second line, undivided, we have a large waggon with its
load. In whatever direction advance is made, there will be no error.
. ‘A large waggon with its load’ refers to the (virtue) accumulated
(in the subject of the line), so that he will suffer no loss (in the con-
duct of affairs).

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows us a feudal prince presenting
his offerings to the Son of Heaven. A small man would be unequal
{to such a duty).

‘A feudal prince presents his offerings to the son of Heaven:’—a
small man (in such a position) does (himself) harm.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject keeping his great
resources under restraint. There will be no error.

‘He keeps his great resources under restraint’ —his wisdom
discriminates clearly (what he ought to do),

O Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows the sincerity of its subject recipro-
cated by that of all the others (represented in the hexagram). Let
him display a proper majesty, and there will be good fortune.

‘His sincerity is reciprocated by all the others:’—his sincerity
serves to stir and call out what is in their minds. “The good fortune
springing from a display of proper majesty’ shows how they might
(otherwise) feel too easy, and make no preparation (to serve him).

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject with help ac-
corded to him from Heaven. There will be good fortune, advantage
In every respect.

‘The good fortune attached to the topmost line of Ta Yu’ arises
from the help of Heaven.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Ta Yu means ‘Great Havings;” denoting in a kingdom a state of pros-
perity and abundance, and in a family or individual, a state of opulence.
The danger threatening such a condition arises from the pride which it is
likely to engender. But everything here is against that issue. Apart from
the symbolism of the trigrams, we have the place of honour occupied by
106 Ta yy,

a weak line, so that its subject will be humble; and all the other lines, stro
as they are, will act in obedient sympathy. There will be great progres
and success.

Line 1, though strong, is at the lowest part of the figure, and has p,
correlate above. No external influences have as yet acted injuriously op
its subject. Let him do as directed, and no hurtful influence will ever affect
him.

The strong line 2 has its proper correlate in line 5, the ruler of the figure,
and will use its strength in subordination to his humility. Hence the sym.
bolism. )

Line 3 is strong, and in the right (an odd) place. The topmost line of the
lower trigram is the proper place for a feudal lord. The subject of this will
humbly serve the condescending ruler in line 5. A small man, having the
place without the virtue, would give himself airs.

Line 4 is strong, but the strength is tempered by the position, which is
that of a weak line. Hence he will do no injury to the mild ruler, to whom
he is so near.

Line 5 symbolises the ruler. Mild sincerity is good in him, and affects
his ministers and others. But a ruler must not be without an awe-inspiring
majesty.

Even the topmost line takes its character from 5. The strength of its
subject is still tempered, and Heaven gives its approval.

On the Commentary

The position in the fifth place indicates the dignity, and its being cen-
tral, in the centre of the upper trigram, indicates the virtue, of the lord of
the figure.

The strength of the lord, moreover, is directed by intelligence; and his
actions are always at the proper time, like the seasons of heaven.

On the Great Symbolism

‘Fire above the sky” will shine far; and this is supposed to symbolise the
vastness of the territory or of the wealth implied in the possession of what
is great. The superior man, in governing men, especially in a time of pros-
perity and wealth, must set himself to develope what is good in them, and
repress what is evil. And this will be in accordance with the will of Heaven,
which has given to all men a nature fitted for goodness.

All the comment that is necessary on the symbolism of the several lines
may be gathered from the comments on the Text.
CHIEN ’ 107

VAIN
— 15
~~ —— CHIEN
— T— Modesty

Component Trigrams

— — Above: K'un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

—

= — Below: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Ch’ien indicates progress and success. The superior man, (being
humble as it implies), will have a (good) issue (to his undertakings).

COMMENTARY

Chien indicates progress and success. It is the way of heaven to
send down its beneficial influences below, where they are bril-
liantly displayed. It is the way of earth, lying low, to send its
influences upwards and (there) to act.

It is the way of heaven to diminish the full and augment the
humble. It is the way of earth to overthrow the full and replenish
the humble. Spiritual Beings inflict calamity on the full and bless
the humble. It is the way of men to hate the full and love the hum-
ble. Humility in a position of honour makes that still more bril-
liant; and in a low position men will not (seek to) pass beyond it.
Thus it is that ‘the superior man will have a (good) issue (to his
undertakings).

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth and (that of) a mountain in the midst
of it form Ch’ien. The superior man, in accordance with this,
diminishes what is excessive (in himself), and increases where
there is any defect, bringing about an equality, according to the
nature of the case, in his treatment (of himself and others).
108 CH’ 1gy

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows us the superior man who adds
humility to humility. (Even) the great stream may be crossed with
this, and there will be good fortune.

‘The superior man who adds humility to humility’ is one who
nourishes his (virtue) in lowliness.

Six in the second place:
The second line, divided, shows us humility that has made it
self recognised. With firm correctness there will be good fortune.
‘The good fortune consequent on being firm and correct, where
the humility has made itself recognised,’ is owing to the possessor's
having (the virtue) in the core of his heart.

ONine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows the superior man of (acknowl-
edged) merit. He will maintain his success to the end, and have
good fortune.

“The superior man of (acknowledged) merit, and yet humble:’—
the myriads of the people will submit to him.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows one, whose action would be in
every way advantageous, stirring up (the more) his humility.

‘One, whose action would be in every way advantageous, stirs
up his humility the more:”— (but in doing so) he does not act con-
trary to the (proper) rule.

Sux in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows one who, without being rich, 1s
able to employ his neighbours. He may advantageously use the
force of arms. All his movements will be advantageous.

‘He may advantageously use the force of arms:’— correcting,
that is, those who do not submit.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows us humility that has made itself
recognised. The subject of it will with advantage put his hosts in
motion; but (he will only) punish his own towns and state.

‘His humility has made itself recognised:’— (but) all his aims
have not yet been attained. ‘He may employ the force of arms,
(but only) in correcting (his own) towns and state.’
CHIEN 109

LEGGE’S NOTES

An essay on humility rightly follows that on abundant possessions. The
third line, which is a whole line amid five others divided, occupying the
topmost place in the lower trigram, is held by the K’ang-hsi editors and
many others to be ‘the lord of the hexagram,’ the representative of humility,
strong, but abasing itself. There is nothing here in the text to make us
enter farther on the symbolism of the figure. Humility is the way to per-
manent success.

A weak line, at the lowest place of the figure, is the fitting symbol of the
superior man adding humility to humility.

Line 2 is weak, central, and in its proper place, representing a humility
that has ‘crowed;’ that is, has proclaimed itself.

Line 3 is strong, and occupies an odd (its proper) place. It is ‘the lord of
the hexagram,’ to whom all represented by the lines above and below turn.

Line 4 is weak and in its proper position. Its subject is sure to be success-
ful and prosperous, but being so near the fifth line, he should still use the
greatest precaution.

All men love and honour humility, in itself and without the adjuncts
which usually command obedience and respect. Hence his neighbours
follow the ruler in the fifth line, though he may not be very rich or power-
ful. His humility need not keep him from asserting the right, even by force
of arms. .

The subject of the sixth line, which is weak, is outside the game, so to
speak, that has been played out. He will use force, but only within his own
sphere and to assert what is right. He will not be aggressive.

On the Commentary

The [Judgment] on this hexagram was so brief, that the writer [of the
Commentary] deals generally with the subject of humility, showing how
it is valued by heaven and earth, by spirits and by men. The descent of the
heavenly influences, and the low position of the earth in paragraph 1, are
both emblematic of humility. The heavenly influences have their ‘display’
in the beauty and fertility of the earth.

The way of heaven is seen, e.g. in the daily declining of the sun, and the
waning of the moon after it is full; the way of earth in the fall of the year.
On the meaning of ‘Spiritual Beings (Kuei-shen),” see [Legge’s] Intro-
duction, It is difficult to say what idea the writer attached to the name.
What he says of man’s appreciation of humility is striking, and, I believe,
correct.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The earth is low, and in the midst of itis a high mountain; but I fail to
see how this can symbolise humility. Nor does Regis’ representation of it
much improve the case: — ‘Monte’ (ait glossa) ‘nihil est altius in terra, quae
est summe abjecta. At cum is declivis sit, imago esse potest humilis mod-
estiae.’ I find the following note on the paragraph in my copy of the ‘Daily
110 CH’ 1ky

Lessons’ (see Preface): — The five yin lines above and below symbolise the
earth; the one yang line in the centre is “the mountain in the midst of the
earth” The many yin lines represent men’s desires; the one yang line,
heavenly principle. The superior man, looking at this symbolism, dimin.
ishes the multitude of human desires within him, and increases the single
shoot of heavenly principle; so does he become grandly just, and can deal
with all things evenly according to the nature of each. In whatever cir-
cumstances. or place he is, he will do what is right” This is certainly very
ingenious, but one shrinks from accepting a view that is not based on the
component trigrams.

Under line 1, ‘nourishes his (virtue) is, literally, ‘pastures himself.’ He
is all humility. That makes him what he is.

Under line 4, ‘the (proper) rule’ is the rule proper for the subject of the
line in his circumstances so near the place of the ruler.

Under line §, ‘the refusal to submit’ makes an appeal to force necessary.
Even the best and humblest ruler bears the sword, and must not bear it
in vain.

Chu Hsi bases all that is said under line 6 on its being a weak line; so
that the humble ruler is unable even at the close of the action described in
the figure to accomplish all his objects, and must limit his field even in
appealing to arms.
— 16

_

— ZZ Harmony (Joy, Enthusiasm)
Component Trigrams

— — Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

——

— —

—— — Below: K’un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

Yii indicates that, (in the state which it implies), feudal princes
may be set up, and the hosts put in motion, with advantage.

COMMENTARY

In Yi we see the strong (line) responded to by all the others,
and the will (of him whom it represents) being carried out; and
(also) docile obedience employing movement (for its purposes).
{From these things comes) Yii (the Condition of harmony and
satisfaction).

In this condition we have docile obedience employing move-
ment (for its purposes), and therefore it is so as between heaven
and earth; — how much more will it be so (among men) in ‘the set-
ting up of feudal princes and putting the hosts in motion!’

Heaven and earth show that docile obedience in connexion with
movement, and hence the sun and moon make no error (in time),
and the four seasons do not deviate (from their order). The sages
show such docile obedience in connexion with their movements,
and hence their punishments and penalties are entirely just, and
the people acknowledge it by their submission. Great indeed are
the time and significance indicated in Yi!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth and thunder issuing from it with its
crashing noise form Yu. The ancient kings, in accordance with
112 Yu

,

this, composed their music and did honour to virtue, presenting
it especially and most grandly to God, when they associated with
Him (at the service) their highest ancestor and their father.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject proclaiming his plea-
sure and satisfaction. There will be evil.

‘The (subject of the) first line proclaims his pleasure and satis-
faction:’—there will be evil; his wishes have been satisfied to
overflowing.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one who is firm as a rock. (He
sees a thing) without waiting till it has come to pass; with his firm
correctness there will be good fortune.

‘(He sees a thing) without waiting till it has come to pas, with
his firm correctness there will be good fortune:’ — this is shown by
the central and correct position (of the line).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one looking up (for favours),
while he indulges the feeling of pleasure and satisfaction. If he
would understand! ~If he be late in doing so, there will indeed be
occasion for repentance.

‘He looks up (for favours), while he indulges the feeling of satis-
faction; there will be occasion for repentance:’—this is intimated
by the position not being the appropriate one.

© Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows him from whom the harmony
and satisfaction come. Great is the success which he obtains. Let
him not allow suspicions to enter his mind, and thus friends will
gather around him.

‘From him the harmony and satisfaction come; great is the
success which he obtains:’— his aims take effect on a grand scale.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows one with a chronic complaint, but
who lives on without dying.

‘(The subject of) the fifth line has a chronic complaint:’ — this
is shown by his being mounted on the strong (line). ‘He still lives
on without dying: — he is in the central position, (and its memories
of the past) have not yet perished.
Yu ‘ 113

Six at the top:
The topmost line, divided, shows its subject with darkened
mind devoted to the pleasure and Satisfaction (of the time); but if
- he change his course even when (it may be considered as) com-
pleted, there will be no error.
‘With darkened mind devoted to the harmony and satisfaction
(of the time),” as shown in the topmost (line): —how can one in
such a condition continue long?

LEGGE’S NOTES

The Yii hexagram denoted to King Wen a condition of harmony and
happy contentment throughout the kingdom, when the people rejoiced in
and readily obeyed their sovereign. At such a time his appointments and
any military undertakings would be hailed and supported. The fourth line,
undivided, is the lord of the figure, and being close to the fifth or place of
dignity, is to be looked on as the minister or chief officer of the ruler. The
ruler gives to him his confidence; and all represented by the other lines
yield their obedience.

Line 1 is weak, and has for its correlate the strong 4. Its subject may well
enjoy the happiness of the time. But he cannot contain himself, and pro-
claims, or boasts of, his satisfaction; — which is evil.

Line 2, though weak, is in its correct position, the centre, moreover, of
the lower trigram. Quietly and firmly its subject is able to abide in his
place, and exercise a far-seeing discrimination. All is indicative of good
fortune.

Line 3 is weak, and in an odd place. Immediately below line 4, its subject
keeps looking up to the lord of the figure, and depends on him, thinking of
doing nothing, but how to enjoy himself. The consequence will be as de-
scribed, unless he speedily change.

The strong subject of line 4 is the agent to whom the happy condition
is owing; and it is only necessary to caution him to maintain his confidence
in himself and his purpose, and his adherents and success will continue.

Line 5 is in the ruler’s place; but it is weak, and he is in danger of being
carried away by the lust of pleasure. Moreover, proximity to the powerful
minister represented by 4 is a source of danger. Hence he is represented as
suffering from a chronic complaint, but nevertheless he does not die.

Line 6, at the very top or end of the hexagram, is weak, and its subject is
all but lost. Still even for him there is a chance of safety, if he will but
change.

On the Commentary

What is said in paragraph 1 about the lines has been pointed out in the
notes on the Text. ‘Obedience’ is the attribute of K'un, the lower trigram,
which takes the initiative in the action of the figure; and here makes use of
the movement, which is the attribute of Chen, the upper trigram.
114 Yi

I can hardly trace the connexion between the different parts of para.
graph 2. Does it not proceed on the harmony produced by the thunderous
explosion between heaven and earth, as declared in[ The Great Symbolism]?
Then the analogy between natural phenomena and human and social ex-
periences comes into play.

Paragraph 3 is also tantalising. Why does the writer introduce the subject
of punishments and penalties? Are they a consequence of putting the hosts
in motion?

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘The Great Symbolism’ here is more obscure than usual. A thunder-
storm clears the air and removes the feeling of oppression, of which one is
conscious before its occurrence. Is this all that is meant by making the
trigrams of the earth and thunder form Yi, the hexagram of harmony and
satisfaction? What is meant, moreover, by making the thunder ‘issue, as the
Chinese text says, from the earth? Then as to the application of this sym-
bolism, I can trace the author’s idea but imperfectly. To say that the
thunder crash suggested the use of music, as some critics do, is absurd. The
use of music at sacrifices, however, as assisting the union produced by those
services between God and his worshippers, and the present and past gener-
ations, agrees with the general idea of the figure. I must suppose that the
writer had in mind the sacrifices instituted by the duke of Chou, as related
in the Hsiao Ching, chap. ix.

Pleasure has operated injuriously on the subject of line 1. He calls atten-
tion to himself.

Only a part of the symbolism of line 2 is referred to here. Such an omis-
sion is not uncommon; —as in lines 3 and 4 also.

With ‘the memories of the past not perishing’ compare Mencius, II,
Section i, chap. 1, 6-13.

In line 6 the action of the hexagram is over. If one puts off changing his
evil way any longer, there remains no more hope for him.
ayi U5

ff

—— 17
—_ SUI

Following
Component Trigrams

—— Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

— — Below: Chen—thunder, movement, perilousness

 

JUDGMENT

Sui indicates that (under its conditions) there will be great
progress and success, But it will be advantageous to be firm and
correct. There will (then) be no error.

COMMENTARY

In Sui we see the strong (trigram) come and place itself under
the weak; we see (in the two) the attributes of movement and plea-
sure: —this gives (the idea of) Sui.

“There will be great progress and success; and through firm cor-
Ffectness no error:’—all under heaven will be found following at
Such a time.

Great indeed are the time and significance indicated in Sui.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] (the waters of) a marsh and (that for) thunder
(hidden) in the midst of it form Sui. The superior man in accord-
ance with this, when it is getting towards dark, enters (his house)
and rests,

THE LINES

Nine in the first place: :
_The first line, undivided, shows us one changing the object of
18 pursuit; but if he be firm and correct, there will be good for-
ne. Going beyond (his own) gate to find associates, he will achieve
erit,
116 St

‘He is changing the object of his pursuit.’ — but if he follow why |
is correct, there will be good fortune. ‘He goes beyond (his owy |
gate to find associates:’—he will not fail (in the method he pur
sues).

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows us one who cleaves to the lit);
boy, and lets go the man of age and experience.

‘He cleaves to the little boy:’— he cannot be with the two at the
same time.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows us one who cleaves to the man of
age and experience, and lets go the little boy. Such following wil
get what it seeks; but it will be advantageous to adhere to what is
firm and correct.

‘He cleaves to the man of age and experience:’ —by the decision
of his will, he abandons (the youth) below.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows us one followed and obtain-
ing (adherents). Though he be firm and correct, there will be evil
If he be sincere (however) in his course, and make that evident, into
what error will he fall?

‘He is followed and obtains adherents:’ according to the idea
(of the hexagram), this is evil. ‘He is sincere in his course:’ — show-
ing his intelligence, and leading to achievement.

ONine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows us (the ruler) sincere in (foster-
ing all) that is excellent. There will be good fortune.

‘He is sincere in fostering what is excellent:’ — his position is cor
rect and in the centre.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows us (that sincerity) firmly held
and clung to, yea, and bound fast. (We see) the king with it pre-
senting his offerings on the western mountain.

“The sincerity is firmly held and clung to, as shown in the top-
most line’ — (the idea of the hexagram) has reached its extreme
development.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Sui symbolises the idea of following. It is said to follow Yi, the symbol
of harmony and satisfaction. Where there are these conditions men are suré
in 117
10 follow; nor will they follow those in whom they have no complacency.
The hexagram includes the cases where one follows others, and where
others follow him; and the auspice of great progress and success is due to
this flexibility and applicability of it. But in both cases the following must
be guided by a reference to what is proper and correct. See the notes on the
[Commentary] and the Great Symbolism.

Line 1 is strong, and lord of the lower trigram. The weak lines ought to
follow it; but here it is below them, in the lowest place of the figure. This
gives rise to the representation of one changing his pursuit. Still through
the native vigour indicated by the line being strong, and in its correct place,
its subject will be fortunate. Going beyond his gate to find associates indi-
cates his public spirit, and superiority to selfish considerations.

Line 2 is weak. Its proper correlate is the strong 5; but it prefers to cleave
to the line below, instead of waiting to follow 5. Hence the symbolism of
the text, the bad omen of which needs not to be mentioned.

Line 3 is also weak, but it follows the strong line above it and leaves line
1, reversing the course of 2; — with a different issue. It is weak, however, and
4 is not its proper correlate; hence the conclusion of the paragraph is equi-
valent to a caution.

Line 4 is strong, and in the place of a great minister next the ruler in 5.
But his having adherents may be injurious to the supreme and sole authority
of that ruler, and only a sincere loyalty will save him from error and mis-~
fortune. .

Line § is strong, and in its correct place, with 2 as its proper correlate;
thus producing the auspicious symbolism.

The issue of the hexagram is seen in line 6; which represents the ideal of
following, directed by the most sincere adherence to what is right. This
influence not only extends to men, but also to spiritual beings. “The western
hill’ is Mount Khi, at the foot of which was the original settlement of the
house of Kau, in B.c. 1325. The use of the name ‘King’ here brings us down
from Wen into the time of King Wu at least.

On the Commentary

The trigrams Chen and Tui are distinguished as strong and weak, Chen
representing, on King Wen’s scheme, ‘the eldest son,’ and Tui, ‘the youngest
daughter.’ But ‘the strong’ here may mean the strong line, the lowest in the
hexagram, As Wang Tsung-chuan (Sung dynasty) says: — ‘The yang and
Strong line should not be below a yin and weak line, as we find it here. That
15, in Sui the high places himself below the low, and the noble below the
Mean:’ — esteeming others higher than himself, and giving the idea of follow-
Ing. Then Chen denotes the production or excitement of motion, and Tui
denotes pleasure; and the union of these things suggests the same idea.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

An explosion of thunder amidst the waters of a marsh would be suc-
Ceeded by a tremulous agitation of those waters; so far there would be a
following of the movement of the lower trigram by the upper. Then in the
application of the symbolism we have an illustration of action following the
time, that is, according to the time; which is a common use of the Chinese
118 : Sy

character Sui. Neither the symbolism, however, nor its application adds
much to our understanding of the text. ]

{Line] 1 consists of two lines that rhyme; and [lines] 4 (two lines), 5, ang
6 do the same. According to Ku Yen-wu, paragraphs 2 and 3 also rhyme;
but this appears to me doubtful. The symbolism of these paragraphs is suf.
ficiently explained in the notes on the Text. Some peculiarities in their
style (in Chinese) are owing to the bonds of the rhyme.
5 119

w

18 2

KU
Arresting Decay

Component Trigrams

Above: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

Below: Sun — wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Ku indicates great progress and success (to him who deals prop-
erly with the condition represented by it). There will be advantage
in (efforts like that of) crossing the great stream. (He should weigh
well, however, the events of) three days before the turning point,
and those (to be done) three days after it.

COMMENTARY

In Ku we have the strong (trigram) above, and the weak one
below; we have (below) pliancy, and (above) stopping: — these give
the idea of Ku (a Troublous Condition of affairs verging to ruin).

‘Ku indicates great progress and success:’ — (through the course
shown in it), all under heaven, there will be good order. ‘There
will be advantage in crossing the great stream:’—he who advances
will encounter the business to be done. {(He should weigh well,
however, the events of) three days before (the turning-point), and
those (to be done) three days after it:"— the end (of confusion) is the
beginning (of order); such is the procedure of Heaven.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain, and below it that for wind, form
Ku. The superior man, in accordance with this, (addresses himself
to) help the people and nourish his own virtue.
120 Ky |
THE LINES

Stx in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows (a son) dealing with the trouble
caused by his father. If he be an (able) son, the father will escape
the blame of having erred. The position is perilous, but there wil
be good fortune in the end.

‘He deals with the troubles caused by his father:’ — he feels that
he has entered into the work of his father.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows (a son) dealing with the
troubles caused by his mother. He should not (carry) his firm cor-
rectness (to the utmost).

‘He deals with the troubles caused by his mother:’— he holds to
the course of the due mean.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows (a son) dealing with the troubles
caused by his father. There may be some small occasion for repen-
tance, but there will not be any great error.

‘He deals with the troubles caused by his father:’—in the end
there will be no error.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows (a son) viewing indulgently the
troubles caused by his father. If he go forward, he will find cause to
regret it.

‘He views indulgently the troubles caused by his father: —if he
go forward, he will not succeed.

O Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows (a son) dealing with the troubles
caused by his father. He obtains the praise of using (the fit instru-
ment for his work).

‘He deals with the troubles caused by his father, and obtains
praise: — he is responded to (by the subject of line two) with all his
virtue.

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows us one who does not serve
either king or feudal lord, but in a lofty spirit prefers (to attend t0)
his own affairs.

‘He does not serve either king or feudal lord:’— but his aim may
be a model (to others).
Ku 121

LEGGE'S NOTES

In [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV] it is said,
“They who follow another are sure to have services (to perform), and hence
Sui is followed by Ku.’ But Ku means the having painful or troublesome
services to do. It denotes here a state in which things are going to ruin, as if
through poison or venomous worms; and the figure is supposed to de-
scribe the arrest of the decay and the restoration to soundness and vigour,
so as to justify its auspice of great progress and success. To realise such a
result, however, great efforts will be required, as in crossing the great
stream; and a careful consideration of the events that have brought on the
state of decay, and the measures to be taken to remedy it is also necessary.
See [the Commentary and its notes] on the ‘three days.’

The subject of line 1, and of all the other lines, excepting perhaps 6, ap-
pears as a son. Yet the line itself is of the yin nature, and the trigram in
which it plays the principal part is also yin. Line 2 is strong, and of the yang
nature, with the yin line 5 as its proper correlate. In line 2, 5 appears as the
mother; but its subject there is again a son, and the upper trigram alto-
gether is yang. I am unable to account for these things. As is said in the
note of Regis on line 2: —‘Haec matris filiique denominatio ad has lineas
mere translatitia est, et, ut ait commentarius vulgaris, ad explicationem
sententiarum eas pro matre et filio supponere dicendum est. Nec ratio
reddetur si quis in utroque hoc nomine mysterium quaerat. Cur enim aliis
in figuris lineae nunc regem, nunc vasallum, jam imperii administrum, mox
summum armorum praefectum referre dicantur? Accommodantur scilicet
lineae ad verba sententiae et verba sententiae ad sensum, quemadmodum
faciendum de methodis libri Shih King docet Mencius, V,i,0de 4.2”

We must leave this difficulty. Line 1 is weak, and its correlate 4 is also
weak. What can its subject do to remedy the state of decay? But the line is
the first of the figure, and the decay is not yet great. By giving heed to the
cautions in the Text, he will accomplish what is promised.

The ruler in line 5 is represented by a weak line, while 2 is strong. Thus
the symbolism takes the form of a son dealing with the prevailing decay in-
duced somehow by his mother. But a son must be very gentle in all his in-
tercourse with his mother, and especially so, when constrained by a sense
of duty to oppose her course. I do not think there is anything more or bet-
ter to be said here. The historical interpretation adopted by Regis and his
friends, that the father here is King Wen, the mother T’ai-ssu, and the son
King Wu, cannot be maintained. I have searched, but in vain, for the slightest
Chinese sanction of it, and it would give to Ku the meaning of misfortunes
endured, instead of troubles caused. .

Line 3 is strong, and not central, so that its subject might well go to ex-
cess in his efforts. But this tendency is counteracted by the line’s place in
the trigram Sun, often denoting lowly submission.

Line 4 is weak, and in an even place, which intensifies that weakness.
Hence comes the caution against going forward.

The weak line 5, as has been said, is the seat of the ruler; but its proper
122 Ky

correlate is the strong 2, the strong siding champion minister, to whom the
work of the hexagram is delegated. }

Line 6 is strong, and has no proper correlate below. Hence it suggests
the idea of one outside the sphere of action, and taking no part in public
affairs, but occupied with the culture of himself.

On the Commentary

The symbolism here is the opposite of that in Sui. The upper trigram
Chen is strong, denoting, according to King Wen, ‘the youngest son; and
the lower, Sun, is weak, denoting ‘the eldest daughter.” For the eldest
daughter to be below the youngest son is eminently correct, and helps to
indicate the auspice of great success. The attribute of Sun is pliancy, and
that of Chen stoppage or arrest. The feeble pliancy confronted by the ar-
resting mountain gives an idea of the evil state implied in Ku.

‘Three days before and after the turning-point’ is, literally, ‘three days
before and after chia,” chia being the name of the first of the ‘earthly stems’
among the cyclical characters. Hence it has the meaning of ‘beginning,’ and
here denotes the turning-point, at which disorder gives place to order. Ac-
cording to ‘the procedure of Heaven,” history is a narrative of change, one
condition of affairs constantly giving place to another and opposite. ‘A king-
dom that cannot be moved’ does not enter into the circle of Chinese ideas.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘When the wind, says Ch’eng-tzu, ‘encounters the mountain, it is driven
back, and the things about are all scattered in disorder; such is the emblem
of the state denoted by Ku.” ‘The nourishing of virtue’ appears especially
in line 6; all the other lines belong to the ‘helping of the people.’

The subject of line 1 has entered into the work of his father, and brings
it about that his father is looked on as blameless. The ‘due mean’ of line 2 is
according to the caution in the Text. The K’ang-hsi editors interpret the
explanation of line 5 as = ‘he takes yp (the course of his father) with all his
virtue.’ I think they are wrong.
123

LIN
wv
— 19
— ZZ LIN
—— Approach (Symbol of Advance)

Component Trigrams

— — Above: Kun —the earth, female, passive, receptive

——— Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

Lin (indicates that under the conditions supposed in it) there
will be great progress and success, while it will be advantageous to
be firmly correct. In the eighth month there will be evil.

COMMENTARY

In Lin (we see) the strong (lines) gradually increasing and ad-
vancing.

(The lower trigram is the symbol of) being pleased, and (the
upper of) being compliant. The strong (line) i is in the central posi-
tion, and is properly responded to.

“There is great progress and success, along with firm correctness:’
—this is the way of Heaven.

‘In the eighth month there will be evil” — (the advancing power)
will decay after no long time.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the waters of a marsh and that for the earth
above it form Lin. The superior man, in accordance with this, has
his purposes of instruction that are inexhaustible, and nourishes
and supports the people without limit.

THE LINES

O Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows its subject advancing in com-
124 Ly

pany (with the subject of the second line). Through his firm cor.
rectness there will be good fortune.

“The good fortune through the firm correctness of (the subject
of the first line) advancing in company (with the subject of the sec.
ond)’ is due to his will being set on doing what is right.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject advancing in
company (with the subject of the first line). There will be good
fortune; (advancing) will be in every way advantageous.

‘The good fortune and every possible advantage attending fhe
advance (of the subject of the second line), in company (with the
subject of the first), arises from the fact that those (to whom the
advance is made) are not yet obedient to the ordinances (of Heaven).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one well pleased (indeed) to ad-
vance, (but whose action) will be in no way advantageous. If he
become anxious about it (however), there will be no error.

‘He (shows himself) well pleased to advance: — his position is
not that appropriate to him. ‘If he become anxious, however, about
his action,” his error will not be continued.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows one advancing in the highest
mode. There will be no error.

‘The freedom from error consequent on the advance in the
highest mode’ is due to the (various) appropriateness of the posi-
tion.

Sux in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows the advance of wisdom, such as
befits the great ruler. There will be good fortune.

‘What befits the great ruler’ means the pursuing the course of
the due mean.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows the advance of honesty and gener-
osity. There will be good fortune, and no error.

“The good fortune consequent on the advance of honesty and
generosity’ is due to the will (of the subject of the line) being set
on the subjects of (the first two lines of) the inner (trigram).

LEGGE’S NOTES

In [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV] Lin is ex-
plained as meaning ‘great.’ The writer, having misunderstood the meaning
LIN 125

of the previous Ku, subjoins—‘He who performs such services may be-
come “great.” But Lin denotes the approach of authority, —to inspect, to
comfort, or to rule. When we look at the figure, we see two strong undivided
lines advancing on the four weak lines above them, and thence follows the
assurance that their action will be powerful and successful. That action
must be governed by rectitude, however, and by caution grounded on the
changing character of all conditions and events. The meaning of the con-
cluding sentence is given in [the Commentary] as simply being — that, ‘the
advancing power will decay in no long time.’ Lu Chen-ch’i (Ming dynasty)
says: —“The sun (or the day) is the symbol of what is Yang; and the moon
is the symbol of what is Yin. Eight is the number of the second of the four
emblematic figures (the smaller Yin), and seven is the number of the third
of them (the smaller Yang). Hence to indicate the period of the coming of
what is Yin, we use the phrase, “the eighth month;” and to indicate the
period of the coming of what is Yang, we use the phrase, “the seventh day.”’
The K’ang-hsi editors say that this is the best explanation of the language
of the Text that can be given:—‘The Yang numbers culminate in 9, the
influence then receding and producing the 8 of the smaller Yin. The Yin
numbers culminate in 6, and the next advance produces the 7 of the smaller
Yang; so that 7 and 8 are the numbers indicating the first birth of what is
Yin and what is Yang.’ ‘If we go to seek,’ they add, ‘any other explanation
of the phraseology of the Text, and such expressions as “3 days,” “3 years,”
“10 years,” &c., we make them cmateliy ele. Lin is the hexagram of the
twelfth month.

Line 1 is a strong line in its proper place. The danger is that its subject
may be more strong than prudent, hence the caution in requiring firm cor-
rectness,

Line 2, as strong, should be in an odd place; but this is more than coun-
terbalanced by the central position, and its correlate in line 5.

Line 3 is weak, and neither central, nor in its correct position. Hence its
action will not be advantageous; but being at the top of the trigram Tui,
which means being pleased, its subject is represented as ‘well pleased to
advance.’ Anxious reflection will save him from error.

Line 4, though weak, is in its proper place, and has for its correlate the
strong 1, Hence its advance is ‘in the highest style.’

Line 5 is the position of the ruler. It is weak, but being central, and hav-
ing for its correlate the strong and central 2, we have in it a symbol of
authority distrustful of itself, and employing fit agents; —characteristic of
the wise ruler.

Line 6 is the last of the trigram K’un, the height therefore of docility.
Line 2 is not its correlate, but it belongs to the Yin to seek for the Yang;
and it is so emphatically in this case. Hence the characteristic and issue as
assigned.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines :

“The earth descending or approaching the marsh’ is, according to Chu
Hsi, symbolical of the approach of superiors to the inferior people, and
then the two predicates about the superior man are descriptive of him in
that approach, the instruction being symbolised by Tui, and the supporting
126 Lin

by K’un. The K’ang-hsi editors, wishing to defend the explanation of Lin
by ‘great, in [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV],
which they ascribe to Confucius, say: —‘Lin means “great.” The earth
above the waters of the marsh shows how full those waters are, rising to
the level of the earth, and thus expressing the idea of greatness.” This rep-
resentation is lame and impotent.

Chu Hii says he does not understand what is said on line 2. The inter-
pretation in my version is the ordinary one, but I am not satisfied with it.
The K'ang-hsi editors try to solve the difficulty; but I am not able to follow
them.

The same editors compare the conclusion of [line] 6 in the symbolism of
hexagram 11. ‘What is external’ there, and ‘what is internal here,’ have, they
say, the same reference, — the state, namely, of the whole kingdom, the ex-
pressions differing according to the different standpoints from which they
are made. The view in the translation is that of Chu Hsi. Itis difficult to hold
the balance between them. The newer view, perhaps, is the preferable.
KUuAN 127

—_— 20
— KUAN
— Contemplation

Pi

Component Trigrams

——

———— Above: Sun—wind, gentle, wood, penetration

—— — Below: K'un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

Kuan shows (how he whom it represents should be like) the
worshipper who has washed his hands, but not (yet) presented his
offerings; — with sincerity and an appearance of dignity (command-
ing reverent regard).

COMMENTARY

The great Manifester occupies an upper place (in the figure),
which consists of (the trigrams whose attributes are) docility and
flexibility. He is in the central position and his correct place, and
thus exhibits (his lessons) to all under heaven.

‘Kuan shows its subject like a worshipper who has washed his
hands, but not (yet) presented his offerings; — with sincerity and an
appearance of dignity (commanding reverent regard):’— (all) be-
neath look to him and are transformed.

When we contemplate the spirit-like way of Heaven, we see how
the four seasons proceed without error. The sages, in accordance
with (this) spirit-like way, laid down their instructions, and all
under heaven yield submission to them.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth, and that for wind moving above it,
form Kuan. The ancient kings, in accordance with this, examined
the (different) regions (of the kingdom), to see the (ways of the)
people, and set forth their instructions.
128 Kuay

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows the looking of a lad; —not blam.
able in men of inferior rank, but matter for regret in superior men,
‘The looking of a lad shown by the first line, divided,’ indicates
the way of the inferior people.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one peeping out from a door.
It would be advantageous if it were (merely) the firm correctness
of a female.

‘The firm correctness of a woman, in peeping out from a door
is also a thing to be ashamed of (in a superior man).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one looking at (the course of) his
own life, to advance or recede (accordingly).

‘He looks at (the course of) his own life, to advance or recede
(accordingly): —he will not err in the path (to be pursued).

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows one contemplating the glory of
the kingdom. It will be advantageous for him, being such as he is,
(to seek) to be a guest of the king.

‘He contemplates the glory of the kingdom:’ — (thence) arises the
wish to be a guest (at court).

ONine in the fifth place:
The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject contemplating his
own life(-course). A superior man, he will (thus) fall into no error.
‘He contemplates his own life(-course):’—he should (for this
purpose) contemplate (the condition of) the people.

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows its subject contemplating his
character to see if it be indeed that of a superior man. He will not
fall into error.

‘He contemplates his own character:’ — he cannot even yet let his
mind be at rest. ;

LEGGE’S NOTES

The Chinese character Kuan, from which this hexagram is named, is
used in it in two senses. In the [Judgment], the first paragraph of the [Com-
mentary], and the paragraph on the Great Symbolism, it denotes showing,
{gin 129
manifesting; in ail other places it denotes contemplating, looking at. The
subject of the hexagram is the sovereign and his subjects, how he manifests
himself to them, and how they contemplate him. The two upper, undi-
vided, lines belong to the sovereign; the four weak lines below them are his
subjects, — ministers and others who look up at him. Kuan is the hexagram
of the eighth month.

In the [Judgment] King Wen symbolises the sovereign by a worshipper
when he is most solemn in his religious service, at the commencement of it,
full of sincerity and with a dignified carriage.

Line 1 is weak, and in the lowest place, improper also for it; — the sym-
bol of a thoughtless lad, who cannot see far, and takes only superficial
views.

Line 2 is also weak, but in its proper place, showing a woman, living re-
tired, and only able to peep as from her door at the subject of the fifth line.
But ignorance and retirement are proper in a woman,

Line 3, at the top of the lower trigram K’un, and weak, must belong to a
subject of the utmost docility, and will wish to act only according to the
exigency of time and circumstances.

Line 4, in the place proper to its weakness, is yet in immediate proximity
to 5, representing the sovereign. Its subject 1s moved accordingly, and
stirred to ambition.

Line 5 is strong, and in the place of the ruler. He is a superior man, but
this does not relieve him from the duty of self-contemplation or examina-
tion. :

There is a slight difference in the 6th paragraph from the 5th, which can
hardly be expressed in a translation. By making a change in the punctuation,
however, the different significance may be brought out. Line 6 is strong,
and should be considered out of the work of the hexagram, but its subject
is still possessed by the spirit of its idea, and is led to self-examination.

On the Commentary

“The great Manifester’ is the ruler, the principal subject of the hexagram,
and represented by line §, near the top of the figure. In that figure the lower
trigram is Kun, representing the earth, with the attribute of docility, and
the upper is Sun, representing wind, with the attributes of flexibility and
penetration. As is the place of line 5, so are the virtues of the ruler.

“The spirit-like way of Heaven’ is the invisible and unfathomable agency
ever operating by general laws, and with invariable regularity, in what we
call nature. Compare with this paragraph, the definition of Shen or Spirit
n [“The Great Treatise,” in Part IV], i, 32; and the doctrine of the agency
8 God, taught in (“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV],

, 9.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Wind moving above the earth has the widest sweep; and nothing es-
Capes its influence; it penetrates everywhere. This symbolism is more ap-
Propriate to the subject in hand than that of many other hexagrams. Per-
sonal influence in a ruler effects much; but the ancient kings wished to add
to that the power of published instructions, specially adapted to the char-
130 Ku,

acter and circumstances of the people. Sun, representing the wind, is we
adapted to denote this influence; — see the Analects, XH, xix.

The looking in line 1 is superficial, and does not reach far.

Line 3. ‘He will not err in the path to be pursued;’ — advancing or receq.
ing as is best.

Line 4. ‘The glory of the kingdom’ is the virtue of the sovereign and th
character of his administration. With the sentiment compare Menctus, VI],
i, chap. 21. 2.
sun Ho 131

viv

— = 21

—— SHIHHO
— — Biting Through

Component Trigrams
Above: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

Below: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

 

JUDGMENT

Shih Ho indicates successful progress (in the condition of things
which it supposes). It will be advantageous to use legal constraints.

COMMENTARY

The existence of something between the jaws gives rise to the
name Shih Ho (Union by means of biting through the intervening
article).

The Union by means of biting through the intervening article
indicates ‘the successful progress (denoted by the hexagram).

The strong and weak (lines) are equally divided (in the figure).
Movement is denoted (by the lower trigram), and bright intelli-
gence (by the upper); thunder and lightning uniting in them, and
having brilliant manifestation. The weak (fifth) line is in the centre,
and acts in its high position. Although it is not in its proper posi-
tion, this is advantageous for the use of legal constraints.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] thunder and lightning form Shih Ho. The an-
cient kings, in accordance with this, framed their penalties with
intelligence, and promulgated their laws.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows one with his feet in the stocks
and deprived of his toes. There will be no error.
132 SHIH Hg

‘His feet are in the stocks, and he is deprived of his toes:
there is no walking (to do evil).

S1x in the second place:
The second line, divided, shows one biting through the soft
flesh, and (going on to) bite off the nose. There will be no error.
‘He bites through the soft flesh, and (goes on) to bite off the
nose:’— (the subject of the line) is mounted on the strong (first
line).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one gnawing dried flesh, and
meeting with what is disagreeable. There will be occasion for some
small regret, but no (great) error.

‘He meets with what is disagreeable and hurtful’ — his position
is not the proper one for him.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows one gnawing the flesh dried
on the bone, and getting the pledges of money and arrows. It will
be advantageous to him to realise the difficulty of his task and be
firm, — in which case there will be good fortune.

‘It will be advantageous to him to realise the difficulty of his
task and be firm, in which case there will be good fortune:’— his
light has not yet been sufficiently displayed.

O Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows one gnawing at dried flesh, and
finding the yellow gold. Let him be firm and correct, realising the
peril (of his position). There will be no error.

‘Let him be firm and correct, realising the peril (of his position),
and there will be no error:’—he will possess every quality appro-
priate (to his position and task).

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows one wearing the cangue, and
deprived of his ears. There will be evil,

‘He wears the cangue and is deprived of his ears:”— he hears, but
will not understand.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Shih Ho means literally ‘Union by gnawing.’ We see in the figure two
strong lines in the first and last places, while all the others, with the excep-
tion of the fourth, are divided. This suggests the idea of the jaws and the
mouth between them kept open by something in it. Let that be gnawed
gars Ho 133

through and the mouth will close and the jaws come together. So in the
body politic. Remove the obstacles to union, and high and low will come
together with a good understanding. And how are those obstacles to be re-
moved? By force, emblemed by the gnawing; that is, by legal constraints.
And these are sure to be successful. The auspice of the figure is favourable.
There will be success.

Lines 1 and 6 are much out of the game or action described in the figure.
Hence they are held to represent parties receiving punishment, while the
other lines represent parties inflicting it. The punishment in line 1 is that
of the stocks, administered for a small offence, and before crime has made
much way. But if the ‘depriving’ of the toes is not merely keeping them in
restraint, but cutting them off, as the Chinese character suggests, the pun-
ishment appears to a western reader too severe.

Line 2 is weak, appropriately therefore in an even place, and it is central
besides. The action therefore of its subject should be effective; and this is
shown by the ‘biting through the soft flesh,’ an easy thing. Immediately be-
low, however, is a strong offender represented by the strong line, and before
he will submit it is necessary to ‘bite off his nose;’ for punishment is the
rule; — it must be continued and increased till the end is secured.

Line 3 is weak, and in an even place. The action of its subject will be in-
effective; and is emblemed by the hard task of gnawing through dried flesh,
and encountering, besides, what is distasteful and injurious in it. But again
comes in the consideration that here punishment is the rule, and the auspice
isnot all bad.

Of old, in a civil case, both parties, before they were heard, brought to
the court an arrow (or a bundle of arrows), in testimony of their rectitude,
after which they were heard; in a criminal case, they in the same way de-
posited each thirty pounds of gold, or some other metal. See the Official
Book of Chou, 27. 14, 15. The subject of the fourth line’s getting those
pledges indicates his exercising his judicial functions; and what he gnaws
through indicates their difficulty. Moreover, though the line is strong, it is
inan even place; and hence comes the lesson of caution.

The fifth line represents ‘the lord of judgment.’ As it is a weak line, he
will be disposed to leniency; and his judgments will be correct. This is de-
clared by his finding the ‘yellow metal;’ for yellow is one of the five ‘cor-
rect” colours. The position is in the centre and that of rule; but the line
being weak, a caution is given, as under the previous line.

The action of the figure has passed, and still we have, in the subject of
line 6, one persisting in wrong, a strong criminal, wearing the cangue, and
deaf to counsel. Of course the auspice is evil.

On the Commentary

The ‘equal division of the strong and weak lines’ is seen by taking them
in pairs, though the order in the first pair is different from that in the two
others. This is supposed to indicate the intelligence of the judgments in the
action of the hexagram. Chen, the lower trigram, symbolises movement;
Li, the upper, intelligence. The fifth line’s acting in its high position does
not intimate the formation of the figure from I, the 42nd hexagram, but
calls attention to the fact that a weak line is here ‘lord of judgment.’ This
134 SHIH Hy

does not seem natural, but the effect is good; — judgment is tempered by
leniency.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Ch’eng-tzu says that thunder and lightning are always found together
and hence their trigrams go together to give the idea of union intended in
Shih Ho. The one trigram symbolising majesty and the other brightness or
intelligence, the application of the hexagram here is easier and more natural
than in many other cases.

1. ‘There is no walking: —that is, the subject of the line will not dare to
offend any more.

2. ‘“Being mounted on the strong first line” means,’ says Ch’eng-tzu,
‘punishing a strong and vehement man, when severity is required, as is de.
noted by the central position of the line.’

4. ‘His light has not been sufficiently displayed;’ that is, there is still
something for him to do:—he has to realise the difficulty of his position
and be firm.
py 135

Po
_, Hd

— n—

J

mie

— —— Adornment

———

Component Trigrams
—— — Above: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

Below: Li— fire, brightness, beauty

 

JUDGMENT

Pi indicates that there should be free course (in what it denotes).
There will be little advantage (however) if it be allowed to advance
(and take the lead).

COMMENTARY

(When it is said that) Pi indicates that there should be free
course (in what it denotes): —

(We see) the weak line coming and ornamenting the strong lines
(of the lower trigram), and hence (it is said that ornament) ‘should
have free course.” On the other hand, the strong line above orna-
ments the weak ones (of the upper trigram), and hence (it is said)
that ‘there will be little advantage, if (ornament) be allowed to
advance (and take the lead).” (This is illustrated in the) appearances
that ornament the sky.

Elegance and intelligence (denoted by the lower trigram) regu-
lated by the arrest (denoted by the upper) suggest the observances
that adorn human (society).

We look at the ornamental figures of the sky, and thereby as-
certain the changes of the seasons. We look at the ornamental ob-
servances of society, and understand how the processes of trans-
formation are accomplished all under heaven.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain and that for fire under it form Pi.
The superior man, in accordance with this, throws a brilliancy
136 Bi

around his various processes of government, but does not dare (ig
a similar way) to decide cases of criminal litigation.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows one adorning (the way of) his
feet. He can discard a carriage and walk on foot.
‘He can discard a carriage and walk on foot: — righteousness re-
quires that he should not ride. {

  
    

OSix in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one adorning his beard.

‘He adorns his beard:’—he rouses himself to action (only) along
with the (subject of the) line above.

Nine in the third place:
The third line, undivided, shows its subject with the appear-
ance of being adorned and bedewed (with rich favours). But let
him ever maintain his firm correctness, and there will be good
fortune. ?
‘The good fortune consequent on his ever maintaining firm cor-
rectness’ is due to this, —that to the end no one will insult him.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows one looking as if adorned, but
only in white. As if (mounted on) a white horse, and furnished with
wings, (he seeks union with the subject of the first line), while (the
intervening third pursues), not as a robber, but intent on a matri-
monial alliance.

‘The place occupied by the fourth line, divided,’ affords ground
for doubt (as to its subject); but ‘(as the subject of the third
pursues) not as a robber, but as intent on a matrimonial alliance,’ he_
will in the end have no grudge against him.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject adorned by (the occu-
pants of) the heights and gardens. He bears his roll of silk, small
and slight. He may appear stingy; but there will be good fortune in
the end.

‘The good fortune falling to the fifth line, divided,’ affords oc-
casion for joy.

ONine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows one with white as his (only)
ornament. There will be no error.

“The freedom from error attached to (the subject of) the topmost
Pi 137

line, with no ornament but the (simple white),’ shows how he has
attained his aim.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character Pi is the symbol of what is ornamental and of the act of
adorning. As there is ornament in nature, so should there be in society; but
its place is secondary to that of what is substantial. This is the view of King
Wen in his [Judgment]. The symbolism of the separate lines is sometimes
fantastic.

Line 1 is strong, and in an odd place. It is at the very bottom of the hexa-
gram, and is the first line of Li, the trigram for fire or light, and suggesting
what is elegant and bright. Its subject has nothing to do but to attend to
himself. Thus he cultivates —adorns~himself in his humble position; but
if need be, righteousness requiring it, he can give up every luxury and
indulgence. ‘

Line 2 is weak and in its proper place, but with no proper correlate
above. The strong line 3 is similarly situated. These two lines therefore
keep together, and are as the beard and the chin. Line 1 follows 2. What is
substantial commands and rules what is merely ornamental.

Line 3 is strong, and between two weak lines, which adorn it, and bestow
their favours on it. But this happy condition is from the accident of place.
The subject of the line must be always correct and firm to ensure its con-
tinuance.

Line 4 has its proper correlate in 1, from whose strength it should re-
ceive ornament, but 2 and the strong 3 intervene and keep them apart, so
that the ornament is only white, and of no bright colour. Line 4, however,
is faithful to 1, and earnest for their union. And finally line 3 appears in a
good character, and not with the purpose to injure, so that the union of 1
and 4 takes place. All this is intended to indicate how ornament recognises
the superiority of solidity. Compare the symbolism of the second line of
Chun (3), and that of the topmost line of K’uei (38).

Line 5 is in the place of honour, and has no proper correlate in 2. It
therefore associates with the strong 6, which is symbolised by the heights
and gardens round a city, and serving both to protect and to beautify it.
Thus the subject of the line receives adorning from without, and does not
of itself try to manifest it. Moreover, in his weakness, his offerings of cere-
Mony are poor and mean. But, as Confucius said, ‘In ceremonies it is better
to be sparing than extravagant.’ Hence that stinginess does not prevent a
good auspice.

Line 6 is at the top of the hexagram. Ornament has had its course, and
here there is a return to pure, ‘white,’ simplicity. Substantiality is better
than ornament.

On the Commentary

The first paragraph is either superfluous or incomplete. The language
of paragraph 2 has naturally been pressed into the service of the doctrine
of changing the figures by divining manipulation; see (the Judgment,
138 Py

Commentary, and notes for] hexagram 6. But as the K’ang-hsi editors point
out, ‘the weak line coming and ornamenting the two strong lines’ simply
indicates how substantiality should have the help of ornament, and ‘the
strong line above (or ascending) and ornamenting the two weak lines’ indi.
cates that ornament should be restrained by substantiality. Ornament has
its use, but it must be kept in check. — The closing sentence has no con-
nexion with what precedes. Some characters are wanting, to show how the
writer passes on to speak of ‘the ornamental figures of the sky.” The whole
should then be joined on to paragraph 3. The ‘figures of the sky’ are all the
heavenly bodies in their relative positions and various movements, pro-
ducing day and night, heat and cold, &c. The observances of society are the
ceremonies and performances which regulate and beautify the intercourse
of men, and constitute the transforming lessons of sagely wisdom.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘A mountain,’ says Ch’eng-tzu, ‘is a place where we find grass, trees, and
a hundred other things. A fire burning below it throws up its light, and
brings them all out in beauty; and this gives the idea of ornament, or being
ornamented. The various processes of government are small matters, and
elegance and ornament help their course; but great matters of judgment
demand the simple, unornamented truth.’

The subject of line 1 does not care for and does not need ornament. He
will walk in the way of righteousness without it.

{Line] 3 tells us that it is not ornament, but correct firmness, which
secures the respect of others.

In the fourth place, and cut off from line 1 by 2 and 3, we might doubt
how far the subject of 4 would continue loyal to the subject of 1. But he
does continue loyal, through the character and object of the subject of 3.

The K’ang-hsi editors say: — ‘Line 5 occupies the place of honour, and
yet prefers simplicity and exalts economy; its subject might change and
transform manners and customs;’ — it is a small matter to say of him that he
affords occasion for joy.

The subject of line 6 has more of the spirit of the hexagram than in most
hexagrams. His being clothed in simple white crowns the lesson that orna-
ment must be kept in a secondary place.
Po 139
2
gL

23
PO
Falling Apart

|

FH

Component Trigrams

— — Above: Ken —mountain, arresting progress

— = Below: K'un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

Po indicates that (in the state which it symbolises) it will not be
advantageous to make a movement in any direction whatever.

COMMENTARY

Po denotes overthrowing or being overthrown. We see (in the
figure) the weak lines (threatening to) change the (last) strong line
(into one of themselves).

That ‘it will not be advantageous to make a movement in any
direction whatever’ appears from the fact that the small men are
(now) growing and increasing. The superior man acts according to
(the exigency of the time), and stops all forward movement, look-
ing at the (significance of the) symbolic figures (in the hexagram).
He values the processes of decrease and increase, of fulness and
decadence, (as seen) in the movements of the heavenly bodies.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth, and (above it) that for a mountain,
which adheres to the earth, form Po. Superiors, in accordance
with this, seek to strengthen those below them, to secure the peace
and stability of their own position.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows one overturning the couch by in-
140 p,|

juring its legs. (The injury will go on to) the destruction of (aly
firm correctness, and there will be evil.

‘He overthrows the couch by injuring its legs: — thus (he com,
mences) his work of ruin with what is lowest (in the superior map)

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one overthrowing the couch by
injuring its frame. (The injury will go on to) the destruction of
(all) firm correctness, and there will be evil.

‘He destroys the couch by injuring its frame: — (the superior
man) has as yet no associates.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject among the over
throwers; but there will be no error.

That ‘there will be no error on the part of this one among the
overthrowers’ arises from the difference between him and the
others above and below.

Sux in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject having overthrown
the couch, and (going to injure) the skin (of him who lies on it).
There will be evil.

‘He has overthrown the couch, and (proceeds to injure) the skin
(of him who lies on it)" — calamity is very near at hand.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows (its subject leading on the others
like) a string of fishes, and (obtaining for them) the favour that
lights on the inmates of the palace. There will be advantage in
every way.

‘He obtains for them the favour that lights on the inmates of the
palace:’ — in the end there will be no grudge against him.

O Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject (as) a great fruit
which has not been eaten. The superior man finds (the people
again) as a chariot carrying him. The small men (by their course)
overthrow their own dwellings.

‘The superior man finds himself in a carriage’ —he is carried
along by the people. ‘The small men (by their course) overthrow
their own dwellings:’ — they can never again be of use to them.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Po is the symbol of falling or of causing to fall, and may be applied, both
in the natural and political world, to the process of decay, or that of over-
141
po
brow. The figure consists of five divided lines, and one undivided, which
! + thus becomes the prominent and principal line in the figure. Decay or
bs throw has begun at the bottom of it, and crept up to the top. The hexa-
om is that of the ninth month, when the beauty and glory of summer
have disappeared, and the year is ready to fall into the arms of sterile win-
«er. In the political world, small men have gradually displaced good men
and great, till but one remains; and the lesson for him is to wait. The power
operating against him is too strong; but the fashion of political life passes
away. If he wait, a change for the better will shortly appear.

The lesser symbolism is chiefly that of a bed or couch with its occupant.
The idea of the hexagram requires this occupant to be overthrown, or at
least that an attempt be made to overthrow him. Accordingly the attempt
inline 1 is made by commencing with the legs of the couch. The symbolism
goes on to explain itself. The object of the evil worker is the overthrow of
all firm correctness. Of course there will be evil.

Line 2 is to the same effect as 1; only the foe has advanced from the legs
to the frame of the couch.

Line 3 also represents an overthrower; but it differs from the others in
being the correlate of 6. The subject of it will take part with him. His as-
sociation is with the subject of 6, and not, as in the other weak lines, with
one of its own kind.

From line 4 the danger is imminent. The couch has been overthrown.
The person of the occupant is at the mercy of the destroyers.

With line 5 the symbolism changes. The subject of 5 is ‘lord of all the
other weak lines,’ and their subjects are at his disposal. He and they are
represented as fishes, following one another as if strung together. All fishes
come under the category of yin. Then the symbolism changes again. The
subject of §, representing and controlling all the yin lines, is loyal to the
subject of the yang sixth line. He is the rightful sovereign in his palace, and
$ leads all the others there to enjoy the sovereign’s favours.

We have still different symbolism under line 6. Its strong subject, not-
withstanding the attempts against him, survives, and acquires fresh vigour.
The people again cherish their sovereign, and the plotters have wrought to
their own overthrow.

On the Commentary

} “The symbolic figures in the hexagram’ are K’un, below, the representa-
tive of docility, acting as circumstances require; and Ken, the representa-
tive of a mountain, which arrests the progress of the traveller. The superior
Man of the topmost line thus interprets them, and acts accordingly. Yet he
1s not left without hope. Winter is followed by spring; night is succeeded
by day; the moon wanes, and then begins to wax again. So will it be in
political life. As we read in the Hebrew prophet Isaiah, ‘In returning and
rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines
‘A mountain, says Yii Fan (towards the end of the Han dynasty), ‘stands
out high above the earth; here it appears as lying on the earth: — plainly it
as been overturned.” On the other hand, Liu Mu (early in the Sung dy-
142 Pg

nasty) says: —‘A mountain has the earth for its foundation. If the earth be
thick, the mountain preserves its height. So it is with the sovereign ang
people.’ The application might be deduced from either view.

It is hard to tell whether ‘the lowest’ in (line) 1 should be supplemented
as I have done. If not, then the explanation is a mere truism.

Ch’eng-tzu is precise and decisive in supplementing the explanation of
[line] 2 as in the translation.

On [line] 5, the K'ang-hsi editors say admirably: — ‘The. fifth line is
weak, and yet occupies the most honourable place in the figure, — emble-
matic of a queen; and as its subject leads on the subjects of the other lines
to obtain the favours given to the inmates of the palace, she, it is plain, has
neither jealousy nor any other injurious temper that might incur blame for
tending to overthrow the ruler.

[Line] 6 shows the ruler restored to the favour of the people, and the
restoration of concord in the state. The small men have done their worst,
and there is an end of their attempts — for a time.
U 143

iz

vy

24
FU
Returning

LH

[ij

Component Trigrams

Above: K'un —the earth, female, passive, receptive

Below: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

JUDGMENT

Fu indicates that there will be free course and progress (in what
it denotes). (The subject of it) finds no one to distress him in his
exits and entrances; friends come to him, and no error is com-
mitted. He will return and repeat his (proper) course. In seven
days comes his return. There will be advantage in whatever direc-
tion movement is made.

COMMENTARY

‘Fu indicates the free course and progress (of what it denotes):” —
it is the coming back of what is intended by the undivided line.

(Its subject’s) actions show movement directed by accordance
with natural order. Hence ‘he finds no one to distress him in his
exits and entrances,” and ‘friends come to him, and no error is
committed.

‘He will return and repeat his proper course; in seven days
comes his return:’—such is the movement of the heavenly (revo-
lution).

‘There will be advantage in whatever direction movement is
made?’ — the strong lines are growing and increasing.

Do we not see in Fu the mind of heaven and earth?

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth and that for thunder in the midst of
it form Fu. The ancient kings, in accordance with this, on the day
144 Fy

of the (winter) solstice, shut the gates of the passes (from one stag,
to another), so that the travelling merchants could not (then) pur.
sue their journeys, nor the princes go on with the inspection of
their states.

THE LINES

O Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject returning (from an
error) of no great extent, which would not proceed to anything
requiring repentance. There will be great good fortune.

‘Returning (from an error) of no great extent’ is the prelude tw
the cultivation of the person.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows the admirable return (of its
subject). There will be good fortune.

“The good fortune attendant on the admirable return (of the
subject of the second line) is due to his condescension to the
virtuous (subject of the line) below.

Six in the third place:
The third line, divided, shows one who has made repeated re-
turns. The position is perilous, but there will be no error.
Notwithstanding ‘the perilous position of him who has made
many returns,” there will be no error through (his aiming after
righteousness).

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject moving right in the
centre (among those represented by the other divided lines), and
yet returning alone (to his proper path).

‘He moves right in the centre (among those represented by the
other divided lines), and yet returns alone:’— his object is to pur-
sue the (proper) path.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows the noble return of its subject.
There will be no ground for repentance.

‘The noble return, giving no ground for repentance, is due to
(the subject of the line) striving to perfect himself in accordance
with his central position.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject all astray on the
subject of returning. There will be evil. There will be calamities
and errors. If with his views he put the hosts in motion, the end
Fu 145

will be a great defeat, whose issues will extend to the ruler of the
state. Even in ten years he will not be able to repair the disaster.

“The evil consequent on being all astray on the subject of return-
ing’ is because the course pursued is contrary to the proper course
for a ruler.

LEGGE'S NOTES

Fu symbolises the idea of returning, coming back or over again. The
last hexagram showed us inferior prevailing over superior men, all that is
good in nature and society yielding before what is bad. But change is the
law of nature and society. When decay has reached its climax, recovery
will begin to take place. In Po we had one strong topmost line, and five
weak lines below it; here we have one strong line, and five weak lines above
it. To illustrate the subject from what we see in nature, —Po is the hexa-
gram of the ninth month, in which the triumph of cold and decay in the
year is nearly complete. It is complete in the tenth month, whose hexagram
is K'un (hexagram 2); then follows our hexagram Fu, belonging to the
eleventh month, in which was the winter solstice when the sun turned
back in his course, and moved with a constant regular progress towards
the summer solstice. In harmony with these changes of nature are the
changes in the political and social state of a nation. There is nothing in the
I to suggest the hope of a perfect society or kingdom that cannot be moved.

The strong bottom line is the first of Chen, the trigram of movement,
and the upper trigram is K'un, denoting docility and capacity. The strong
returning line will meet with no distressing obstacle, and the weak lines
will change before it into strong, and be as friends. The bright quality
will be developed brighter and brighter from day to day, and month to
month.

The sentence, ‘In seven days comes his return,” occasions some per-
plexity. If the reader will refer to hexagrams 44, 33, 12, 20, 23, and 2, he
will see that during the months denoted by those figures, the 5th, 6th, 7th,
8th, 9th, and 10th, the yin lines have gradually been prevailing over the
yang, until in K’un (2) they have extruded them entirely from the lineal
figure. Then comes our Fu, as a seventh figure, in which the yang line be-
gins to reassert itself, and from which it goes on to extrude the yin lines
in their turn. Explained therefore of the months of the year, we have to
take a day for a month. And something analogous — we cannot say exactly
what —must have place in society and the state.

The concluding auspice or oracle to him who finds this Fu by divination
is what we might expect.

The subject of line 1 is of course the undivided line, meaning here, says
Ch'eng-tzu, ‘the way of the superior man.’ There must have been some
deviation from that, or ‘returning’ could not be spoken of.

Line 2 is in its proper place, and central; but it is weak. This is more than
compensated for, however, by its adherence to line 1, the fifth line not
being a proper correlate. Hence the return of its subject is called excellent
or admirable.
146 Fu

Line 3 is weak, and in the uneven place of a strong line. It is the top line,
moreover, of the trigram whose attribute is movement. Hence the sym-
bolism; but any evil issue may be prevented by a realisation of danger and
by caution.

Line 4 has its proper correlate in 1; different from all the other weak
lines; and its course is different accordingly.

Line 5 is in the central place of honour, and the middle line of Kun,
denoting docility. Hence its auspice. :

Line 6 is weak; and being at the fop of the hexagram, when its action
of returning is all concluded, action on the part of its subject will lead to
evils such as are mentioned. “Ten years’ seems to be a round number,
signifying a long time, as in hexagram 3. 2.

On the Commentary

‘The movement of the heavenly revolution’ in paragraph 3 has reference
to the regular alternations of darkness and light, and of cold and heat, as
seen in the different months of the year. Hao Hsing-kuo (of the Thang
dynasty) refers to the expressions in the Shih, I, xv, ode 1, ‘the days of (our)
first (month), second (month),’ &c., as illustrating the use of day for month,
as we have it here; but that is to explain what is obscure by what is more
so; though I believe, as stated on the Text, that ‘seven days’ is here equiva-
lent to ‘seven months.’

‘The mind of heaven and earth’ is the love of life and of all goodness that
rules in the course of nature and providence.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

“Thunder in the midst of the earth’ is thunder shut up and silent, just
able to make its presence felt. So is it with the first genial stirrings of life
after the winter solstice; so is it with the first returning steps of the wan-
derer to virtue. As the spring of life has to be nursed in quietness, so also
has the purpose of good. The ancient statutes here referred to must have
been like the present cessation from public and private business at the time
of the new year, when all the Chinese people are for a time dissolved in
festivity and joy.

Canon McClatchie translates here: — “The ancient kings on this culmi-
nating day’ (i.e. the seventh) closed their gates,’ &c. ‘Culminating day does
not give us the meaning so well as ‘the day of the solstice;” but where does
the translator find the explanatory ‘the seventh,” which he puts in paren-
theses? In my own ‘salad’ days of Chinese knowledge I fancied there might
be in paragraph 1 of the Text some allusion to a primitive sabbath; but
there is no ground for introducing ‘seven days,’ or ‘the seventh day,’ into
this paragraph of the Great Symbolism.

“The virtuous subject of the first line’ is in [line] 2 called zhen, ‘the be-
nevolent’ or ‘loving.’ It is the only case in all the symbolism of the J where
we find that term used as an adjective. It is emphatic here for ‘humanity,’
man in his ideal.

The other [comments on the lines] present nothing for remark beyond
what has been said on the Text of the duke of Chou.
Wu WaNG _ «147

LX

WU WANG
Correctness (Innocence)

hill

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

Below: Chen—thunder, movement, perilousness

JUDGMENT

Wu Wang indicates great progress and success, while there
will be advantage in being firm and correct. If (its subject and his
action) be not correct, he will fall into‘errors, and it will not be ad-
vantageous for him to move in any direction.

COMMENTARY

In Wu Wang we have the strong (first) line come from the outer
{trigram), and become in the inner trigram lord (of the whole
figure); we have (the attributes of) motive power and strength; we
have the strong line (of the fifth place) in the central position, and
responded to (by the weak second): —there will be ‘great progress
proceeding from correctness; such is the appointment of Heaven.

‘If (its subject and his action) be not correct, he will fall into
errors, and it will not be advantageous for him to move in any
direction: — whither can he (who thinks he is) free from all insin-
cerity, (and yet is as here described) proceed? Can anything be
done (advantageously) by him whom the (will and) appointment
of Heaven do not help?

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

The thunder rolls all under the sky, and to (every) thing there
is given (its nature), free from all insincerity. The ancient kings, in
accordance with this, (made their regulations) in complete accord-
ance with the seasons, thereby nourishing all things.
148 Wu Wang

THE LINES

© Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject free from all insin-
cerity. His advance will be accompanied with good fortune.

When ‘he who is free from insincerity makes any movement,” he
will get what he desires.

Stx in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one who reaps without having
ploughed (that he might reap), and gathers the produce of his third
year’s fields without having cultivated them the first year for that
end. To such a one there will be advantage in whatever direction
he may move.

‘He reaps without having ploughed:’ —(the thought of) riches
to be got had not risen (in his mind).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows calamity happening to one who
is free from insincerity; —as in the case of an ox that has been tied
up. A passer-by finds it (and carries it off), while the people in the
neighbourhood have the calamity (of being accused and appre-
hended).

‘The passer-by gets the ox:’—this proves a calamity to the
people of the neighbourhood.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows (a case) in which, if its sub-
ject can remain firm and correct, there will be no error.

‘If he can remain firm and correct there will be no error:’—he
firmly holds fast (his correctness). . _.

oO Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows one who is free from insin-
cerity, and yet has fallen ill. Let him not use medicine, and he will
have occasion for joy (in his recovery).

‘Medicine in the case of one who is free from insincerity! —it
should not be tried (at all).

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject free from insin-
cerity, yet sure to fall into error, if he take action. (His action) will
not be advantageous in any way.

“The action (in this case) of one who is free from insincerity’ will
occasion the calamity arising from action (when the time for it is)
exhausted.
Wu WANG 149

LEGGE’S NOTES

Wang is the symbol of being reckless, and often of being insincere; Wu
Wang is descriptive of a state of entire freedom from such a condition; its
subject is one who is entirely simple and sincere. The quality is charac-
teristic of the action of Heaven, and of the highest style of humanity. In
this hexagram we have an essay on this noble attribute. An absolute recti-
tude is essential to it. The nearer one comes to the ideal of the quality, the
more powerful will be his influence, the greater his success. But let him
see to it that he never swerve from being correct.

The first line is strong; at the commencement of the inner trigram denot-
ing movement, the action of its subject will very much characterise all the
action set forth, and will itself be fortunate.

Line 2 is weak, central, and in its correct place. The quality may be
predicated of it in its highest degree. There is an entire freedom in its
subject from selfish or mercenary motive. He is good simply for goodness’
sake. And things are so constituted that his action will be successful.

But calamity may also sometimes befal the best, and where there is this
freedom from insincerity; and line 3 being weak, and in the place of an
even line, lays its subject open to this misfortune. “The people of the neigh-
bourhood’ are of course entirely innocent. }

Line 4 is the lowest in the trigram of strength, and 1 is not a proper
correlate, nor is the fourth the place for a strong line. Hence the paragraph
must be understood as a caution. .

Line § is strong, in the central place of honour, and has its proper corre-
late in 2. Hence its subject must possess the quality of the hexagram in per-
fection. And yet he shall be sick or in distress. But he need not be anxious.
Without his efforts a way of escape for him will be opened.

Line 6 is at the top of the hexagram, and comes into the field when the
action has run its course. He should be still, and not initiate any fresh
movement. .

On the Commentary

The advocates of one trigram’s changing into another, which ought not
to be admitted, we have seen, into the interpretation of the /, make Wu
Wang to be derived from Sung (No. 6), the second line there being manipu-
lated into the first of this; but this representation is contrary to the words
of the text, which make the strong first line come from the outer trigram,
Le. from Ch’ien. And so it does, as related, not very intelligibly, in [*Trea-
tse of Remarks on the Hexagrams,” in Part IV], Chen, the lower trigram
here, being ‘the eldest son,’ resulting from the first application of K’un to
Ch'ien. The three peculiarities in the structure of the figure afford the
auspice of progress and success; and very striking is the brief and emphatic
declaration, that such progress is ‘the appointment of Heaven.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The composition of the hexagram is given here in a manner different
from what we have met with in the account of any of the preceding figures;
and as the text is not called in question, I have made the best I could in the
150 Wu Wang

translation of the two commencing clauses. The application of the sym.
bolism to what the ancient kings did is also hard to comprehend.

The paragraph on line 1 is another way of saying that in the course of
things real goodness may be expected to be fortunate,— ‘by the appoint.
ment of Heaven.’

[Line] 2. “The thought of getting rich had not risen in his mind:’—he
did what he did, because it was right, not because of the gain it would
bring him.

On [line] 3, it is said, “The superior man seeks simply to be free from in-
sincerity, and leaves the questions of happiness and calamity to Heaven.

[Line] 5. ‘Sickness ought not to happen to one who is perfectly sincere.
If it do happen, he must refer it to some inexplicable will of Heaven. As
that has afflicted, so it will cure.’

[Line] 6. ‘When a thing is over and done, submission and acquiescence
are what are required, and not renewed attempts at action.’
Ta Cu'u 151

 

The Great Taming Force

 

Component Trigrams

Above: Ken— mountain, arresting progress

Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

JUDGMENT

Under the conditions of Ta Chu it will be advantageous to be
firm and correct. (If its subject do not seek to) enjoy his revenues
in his own family (without taking service at court), there will be
good fortune. It will be advantageous for him to cross the great
stream,

COMMENTARY

In (the trigrams composing) Ta Ch’u we have (the attributes) of
the greatest strength and of substantial solidity, which emit a
brilliant light; and indicate a daily renewal of his virtue (by the
subject of it).

The strong line is in the highest place, and suggests the value
set on talents and virtue; there is power (in the upper trigram) to
keep the strongest in restraint: —all this shows ‘the great correct-
ness’ (required in the hexagram).

“The good fortune attached to the subject's not seeking to enjoy
his revenues in his own family’ shows how talents and virtue are
nourished. '

‘It will be advantageous to cross the great stream:’— (the fifth
line, representing the ruler,) is responded to by (the second, the
central line of Ch’ien, representing) Heaven.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM
[The symbol of] a mountain, and in the midst of it that (repre-
152 Ta Cry

senting) heaven, form Ta Ch’u. The superior man, in accordance
with this, stores largely in his memory the words and deeds of
former men, to subserve the accumulation of his virtue.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject in a position of peril.
It will be advantageous for him to stop his advance.

‘He is in a position of peril; it will be advantageous for him to
stop his advance.’ —he should not rashly expose himself to ca-
lamity.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows a carriage with the strap
under it removed.

‘(He is as) a carriage from which the strap under it has been
removed:’ — being in the central position, he will incur no blame.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject urging his way with
good horses. It will be advantageous for him to realise the difh-
culty (of his course), and to be firm and correct, exercising himself
daily in his charioteering and methods of defence; then there will
be advantage in whatever direction he may advance.

‘There will be advantage in whatever direction he may advance?’
— (the subject of) the topmost line is of the same mind with him.

Six in the fourth place:
The fourth line, divided, shows the young bull, (and yet) having
the piece of wood over his horns. There will be great good fortune.
‘The great good fortune indicated by the fourth line, divided,
shows that there is occasion for joy.

OSix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows the teeth of a castrated hog. There
will be good fortune.

“The good fortune indicated by the fifth line, divided,” shows
that there is occasion for congratulation.

O Nine at rhe top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows its subject (as) in command
of the firmament of heaven. There will be progress.

‘In command of the firmament of heaven:’— the way is grandly
open for movement.
Ta Cr'u ) 153

LEGGE’S NOTES

Ch’u has two meanings. It is the symbol of restraint, and of accumu-
Jation. What is repressed and restrained accumulates its strength and in-
creases its volume. Both these meanings are found in the [Commentary];
the exposition of the Great Symbolism has for its subject the accumulation
of virtue, The different lines are occupied with the repression or restraint
of movement. The first three lines receive that repression, the upper three
exercise it. The accumulation to which all tends is that of virtue; and hence
the name of Ta Ch’u, ‘the Great Accumulation.’

What the [Judgment] teaches, is that he who goes about to accumulate
his virtue must be firm and correct, and may then, engaging in the public
service, enjoy the king's grace, and undertake the most difficult enterprises.

Line 1 is subject to the repression of 4, which will be increased if he try
to advance. It is better for him to halt.

Line 2 is liable to the repression of 5, and stops its advance of itself, its
subject having the wisdom to do so through its position in the central
place. The strap below, when attached to the axle, made the carriage stop;
he himself acts that part.

Line 3 is the last of Chien, and responds to th¢ sixth line, the last of
Ken, above. But as they are both strong, the latter does not exert its repres-
sive force. They advance rapidly together; but the position is perilous for
3. By firmness and caution, however, its subject will escape the peril, and
the issue will be good.

The young bull in line 4 has not yet got horns. The attaching to their
rudiments the piece of wood to prevent him from goring is an instance of
extraordinary precaution; and precaution is always good.

A boar is a powerful and dangerous animal. Let him be castrated, and
though his tusks remain, he cares little to use them. Here line 5 represents
the ruler in the hexagram, whose work is to repress the advance of evil. A
conflict with the subject of the strong second line in its advance would be
perilous; but 5, taking early precaution, reduces it to the condition of the
castrated pig. Not only is there no evil, but there is good fortune.

The work of repression is over, and the strong subject of line 6 has now
the amplest scope to carry out the idea of the hexagram in the accumu-
lation of virtue.

On the Commentary

In paragraph I, Ta Chu evidently means the ‘grand accumulation’ of
virtue, indicated by the attributes of its component trigrams. ‘Substantial
solidity’ may very well be given as the attribute of mountains.

‘The strong line in the highest place’ of paragraph 2 is line 6, whose
Subject is thus above the ruler represented by 5, and has the open firma-
ment for his range in doing his work. This, and his ability to repress the
rion pest opposition, show how he is supported by all that is correct and
right.

In a kingdom where the object of the government is the accumulation
of virtue, good and able men will not be left in obscurity.
154 Ta Cyy

What will not a high and good purpose, supported by the greatey
strength, be able to do?

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

I have quoted, in the Introduction, p. 355, Chu Hsi’s remark on the Grea
Symbolism here. Ch’eng-tzu says: —‘Heaven is the greatest of all things,
and its being in the midst of a mountain gives us the idea of a very large
accumulation. And so great is the labour of the superior man in learning,
acquiring, and remembering, to accumulate his virtue.’

{Line} 1. The ‘calamity’ is that of opposition from, or repression by, the
subject of line 4.

{Line] 3. When the action of the hexagram has reached line 6, its work
is done. The subject of 6 will no longer exercise repression, but join with
that of 3, assisting him to advance.

{Line] 4. The subject of line 4 has indeed occasion for joy. Without the
use of punishment for crimes committed, by precaution anticipating them,
without any trouble he has repressed evil. The ‘joy’ gives place in [line] 5
to ‘congratulation,’ the people being all interested in the action of the ruler.
eF

27

an

— — Nourishment
Component Trigrams

—— — Above: Ken— mountain, arresting progress

— —— Below: Chen —thunder, movement, perilousness

 

JUDGMENT

I indicates that with firm correctness there will be good fortune
(in what is denoted by it). We must look at what we are seeking to
nourish, and by the exercise of our thoughts seek for the proper
aliment.

COMMENTARY

‘T indicates that with firm correctness there will be good fortune:’
~when the nourishing is correct, there will be good fortune. ‘We
must look at what we are seeking to nourish:’—we must look at
those whom we wish to nourish. ‘We must by the exercise of our
thoughts seek the proper aliment:’—we must look to our own
nourishing of ourselves.

Heaven and earth nourish all things. The sages nourish men of
talents and virtue, by them to reach to the myriads of the people.
Great is (the work intended by this) nourishing in its time!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of] a mountain and under it that for thunder form
I. The superior man, in accordance with this, (enjoins) watch-
fulness over our words, and the temperate regulation of our eating
and drinking. .

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, (seems to be thus addressed), ‘You
156 1

leave your efficacious tortoise, and look at me till your lower jaw
hangs down.” There will be evil.

‘You look at me till your (lower) jaw hangs down:”— (the subject
of the line) is thus shown unfit to be thought noble.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one looking downwards for
nourishment, which is contrary to what is proper; or seeking it
from the height (above), advance towards which will lead to evil.

“The evil of advance by the subject of the second line, divided,
is owing to his leaving in his movements his proper associates.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows one acting contrary to he method
of nourishing. However firm he may be, there will be evil. For
ten years let him not take any action, (for) it will not be in any
way advantageous.

‘For ten years let him not take any action:’— his course is greatly
opposed (to what is right).

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows one looking downwards for
(the power to) nourish. There will be good fortune. Looking with
a tiger's downward unwavering glare, and with his desire that
impels him to spring after spring, he will fall into no error.

‘The good fortune attached to looking downwards for (the
power to) nourish,” shows how brilliant will be the diffusion (of
that power) from (the subject of the line’s) superior position.

O Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows one acting contrary to what is
regular and proper; but if he abide in firmness, there will be good
fortune. He should not, (however, try to) cross the great stream.

“The good fortune from abiding i in firmness’ is due to the docil-

ity (of the subject of the line) in following (the subject of the line)
above,

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows him from whom comes the
nourishing. His position is perilous, but there will be good fortune.
It will be advantageous to cross rhe great stream.

“The good fortune, notwithstanding the peril of his position,
of him from whom comes the nourishing,” affords great cause for
congratulation.
LEGGE'S NOTES

I is the symbol of the upper jaw, and gives name to the hexagram; but
the whole figure suggests the appearance of the mouth. There are the two
undivided lines at the bottom and top, and the four divided lines between
them. The first line is the first in the trigram Chen, denoting movement;
and the sixth is the third in Chen, denoting what is solid. The former is the
lower jaw, part of the mobile chin; and the other the more fixed upper jaw.
The open lines are the cavity of the mouth. As the name of the hexagram,
[ denotes nourishing, — one’s body or mind, one’s self or others. The nour-
ishment in both the matter and method will differ according to the object
of it; and every one must determine what to employ and do in every case
by exercising his own thoughts, only one thing being premised, — that in
both respects the nourishing must be correct, and in harmony with what is
right. The auspice of the whole hexagram is good.

The first line is strong, and in its proper place; its subject might suffice
for the nourishing of himself, like a tortoise, which is supposed to live on
air, without more solid nourishment. But he is drawn out of himself by
desire for the weak 4, his proper correlate, at whom he looks till his jaw
hangs down, or, as we say, his mouth waters. Hence the auspice is bad.
The symbolism takes the form of an expostulation addressed, we must
suppose, by the fourth line to the first.

The weak 2, insufficient for itself, seeks nourishment first from the strong
line below, which is not proper, and then from the strong 6, not its proper
correlate, and too far removed. In either case the thing is evil.

Line 3 is weak, in an odd place; and as it occupies the last place in the
trigram of movement, all that quality culminates in its subject. Hence he
considers himself sufficient for himself, without any help from without,
and the issue is bad.

With line 4 we pass into the upper trigram. It is next to the ruler’s place
in § moreover, and bent on nourishing and training all below. Its proper
correlate is the strong 1; and though weak in himself, its subject looks with
intense desire to the subject of that for help; and there is no error.

The subject of line § is not equal to the requirements of his position; but
with a firm reliance on the strong 6, there will be good. fortune. Let him
not, however, engage in the most difficult undertakings.

The topmost line is strong, and 5 relies on its subject; but being pene-
trated with the idea of the hexagram, he feels himself in the position of
Master or tutor to all under heaven. The task is hard and the responsibility
great; but realising these things, he will prove himself equal to them.

On the Commentary

Many of the critics, in illustration of paragraph 1, refer appropriately
to Mencius, V1, i, chap. 14.

In illustration of paragraph 2 they refer to the times and court of Yao
and Shun, sage rulers, from whose cherishing and nourishing came Yii to
assuage the waters of the deluge, Chi to teach the people agriculture, Hsieh
158

as minister of instruction, Kao Yao as minister of crime, and others;-
to do the work of nourishing the people.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

I do not think that the Great Symbolism here is anything but that
thunderstorm, dispersing the oppression that hangs over nature, and
lowed by genial airs, and the reviving of all vegetation. But there is not
analogous to the thunder in the application. ‘Words,’ it is said, ‘nou
virtue; food and drink nourish the body.’

[Line] 1. As Mencius said, ‘He that noyrishes the little belongin
him is a little man.

[Line] 2. Neither the subject of line 1, nor of line 6, is the proper as:
ate of 2,

The other {lines] are sufficiently illustrated in the notes on the Text.
159

Ta Kvo
-
1%
— 28
— TA KUO
— Excess

Component Trigrams

Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

Below: Sun— wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Ta Kuo suggests to us a beam that is weak. There will be ad-
vantage in moving (under its conditions) in any direction whatever;
there will be success.

COMMENTARY

Ta Kuo shows the great ones (=the undivided lines) in excess.

In ‘the beam that is weak’ we see weakness both in the lowest
and the topmost (lines).

The strong lines are in excess, but (two of them) are in the cen-
tral positions. The action (of the hexagram is represented by the
symbols of) flexibility and satisfaction. (Hence it is said), “There
will be advantage in moving in any direction whatever; yea, there
will be success.’

_ Great indeed is (the work to be done in) this very extraordinary
time. )

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] trees hidden beneath that for the waters of a
marsh forms Ta Kuo. The superior man, in accordance with this,
Stands up alone and has no fear, and keeps retired from the world
Without regret.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows one placing mats of the white mao
grass under things set on the ground. There will be no error.
160 Ta K,

     
  
 

‘He places mats of the white mao grass under things set on ¢
ground:’— he feels his weakness and his being in the lowest pla
(and uses extraordinary care). )

O Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows a decayed willow produci
shoots, or an old husband in possession of his young wife. Then -
will be advantage in every way.

‘An old husband and a young wife’ —such association is ey
traordinary.

Nine in the third place:
The third line, undivided, shows a beam that is weak. Ther
will be evil.
‘The evil connected with the beam that is weak’ arises from this
that no help can be given (to the condition thus represented). :

oNine in the fourth place: .
The fourth line, undivided, shows a beam curving upwards,
There will be good fortune. If (the subject of it) looks for other
(help but that of line one), there will be cause for regret.
‘The good fortune connected with the beam curving upwards
arises from this, that it does not bend towards what is below.

Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows a decayed willow producing
flowers, or an old wife in possession of her young husband. There
will be occasion neither for blame nor for praise.

‘A decayed willow produces flowers:” — but how can this secure
its long continuance? ‘An old wife and a young husband:’ — this
also is a thing to be ashamed of.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject with extraordinary
(boldness) wading through a stream, till the water hides the crown
of his head. There will be evil, but no ground for blame.

‘Evil follows wading with (extraordinary) boldness (through the
stream):’ — but (the act) affords no ground for blame.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Very extraordinary times require very extraordinary gifts in the conduct
of affairs in them. This is the text on which King Wen and his son discourse
after their fashion in this hexagram. What goes, in their view, to constitute
anything extraordinary is its greatness and difficulty. There need not be
about it what is not right.
» Kuo 161

Looking at the figure we see two weak lines at the top and bottom, and
trong lines between them, giving us the idea of a great beam unable

four S : . : .
B sustain its own weight. But the second and fifth lines are both strong
and in the centre; and from this and the attributes of the component tri-
grams a good auspice is obtained.
“ Line 1 being weak, and at the bottom of the figure, and of the trigram
gun, which denotes flexibility and humility, its subject is distinguished
"py his carefulness, as in the matter mentioned; and there is a good auspice.

Line 2 has no proper correlate above. Hence he inclines to the weak 1
pelow him; and we have the symbolism of the line. An old husband with
a young wife will yet have children; the action of the subject of 2 will be
successful.

Line 3 is strong, and in an odd place. Its subject is confident in his own
strength, but his correlate in 6 is weak. Alone, he is unequal to the ex-
traordinary strain on him. and has for his symbol the weak beam.

Line 4 is near 5, the ruler’s place. On its subject devolves the duty of
meeting the extraordinary exigency of the time; but he is strong; and, the
line being in an even place, his strength is tempered. He will be equal to his
task. Should he look out for the help of the subject of 1, that would affect
him with another element of weakness; and his action would give cause
for regret.

Line 5 is strong and central. Its subject should be equal to achieve ex-
traordinary merit. But he has no proper correlate below, and as 2 inclined
to 1, so does this to 6. But here the willow only produces flowers, not
shoots; — its decay will soon reappear. An old wife will have no children.
If the subject of the line is not to be condemned as that of 3, his action does
not deserve praise.

The subject of 6 pursues his daring course, with a view to satisfy the
extraordinary exigency of the time, and benefit all under the sky. He is
unequal to the task, and sinks beneath it; but his motive modifies the judg-
ment on his conduct.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 3. In the Great Symbolism ‘wood’ appears as the natural
object symbolised by Sun, and not ‘wind,’ which we find more commonly.
The attribute of “flexibility,” however, is the quality of Sun, whether used
of wind or of wood.

Paragraph 4. Such a time, it is said, was that of Yao and Shun, of T'ang
the Successful, and of King Wu. What these heroes did, however, was all
called for by the exigency of their times, and not by whim or principle
of their own, which they wished to make prominent.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Ch’eng-tzu says on the Great Symbolism: —‘The waters of a marsh
Moisten and nourish the trees. When here it is said that they destroy and
extinguish the trees, their action is very extraordinary.” This explanation
18 very far-fetched; and so is what the same scholar says on the application
of it. T need not give it here, nor have I found, or myself made out, any
other more easy and natural.
162 . Ta Kug

{Line} 2. ‘Such an association is extraordinary: —the characters als
imply, perhaps, that it is successful.

[Line] 3. The beam being broken, any attempt to sustain it will have ng
effect in supporting the roof.

[Line] 5. The shoots produced in line 2 will grow into a new and vigor.
ous tree. The flowers here will soon decay, and the withered trunk continue
the same. For what will a young man marry an old woman? There will
be no children; — it can only be from some mercenary object.
K’AN 103
29

IR
K'AN

The Perilous Pit

il

Component Trigrams

|

Above: K’an — water, a pit, danger
p g

—— Below: K’an — water, a pit, danger
p g

JUDGMENT

K’an, here repeated, shows the possession of sincerity, through
which the mind is penetrating. Action (in accordance with this)
will be of high value.

COMMENTARY

K’an repeated shows us one defile succeeding another.

This is the nature of water; —it flows on, without accumulating
its volume (so as to overflow); it pursues its way through a danger-
ous defile, without losing its true (nature).

That ‘the mind is penetrating’ is indicated by the strong (line)
in the centre. That ‘action (in accordance with this) will be of high
value’ tells us that advance will be followed by achievement.

The dangerous (height) of heaven cannot be ascended; the dif-
ficult places of the earth are mountains, rivers, hills, and mounds.
Kings and princes arrange, by means of such strengths, to main-
tain their territories. Great indeed is the use of (what is here)
taught about seasons of peril.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of ] water flowing on continuously forms the re-
peated K’an. The superior man, in accordance with this, maintains
constantly the virtue (of his heart) and (the integrity of) his con-
duct, and practises the business of instruction.
164 Ky,

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject in the double defi,
and (yet) entering a cavern within it. There will be evil.

‘In the double defile, he enters a cavern within it:" — he has missy
his (proper) way, and there will be evil.

O Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject in all the peril of
the defile. He will, however, get a little (of the deliverance) tha
he seeks.

‘He will get a little (of the deliverance) that he seeks:’—he will ,
not yet escape from his environed position.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject, whether he comes or
goes (=descends or ascends), confronted by a defile. All is peril
to him and unrest. (His endeavours) will lead him into the cavern
of the pit. There should be no action (in such a case).

‘Whether he comes or goes, he is confronted by a defile’ —he
will never (in such circumstances) achieve any success.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject (at a feast), with
(simply) a bottle of spirits, and a subsidiary basket of rice, while
(the cups and bowls) are (only) of earthenware. He introduces his
important lessons (as his ruler’s) intelligence admits. There will
in the end be no error. :

‘(Nothing but) a bottle of spirits and a subsidiary basket of rice’
—(these describe) the meeting at this point of (those who are rep-
resented by) the strong and weak lines.

O Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows the water of the defile not yet
full, (so that it might flow away); but order will (soon) be brought
about. There will be no error.

‘The water in the defile is not full (so as to flow away):’ — (the
virtue indicated by) the central situation is not yet (sufficiently)
great.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject bound with cords
of three strands or two strands, and placed in the thicket of thorns.
But in three years he does not learn the course for him to pursué-
There will be evil.
KAN 165

“The sixth line, divided, shows its subject missing his (proper)
course: — ‘there will be evil for three years.’

LEGGE’'S NOTES

The trigram K’an, which is doubled to form this hexagram, is the lineal
symbol of water. Its meaning, as a character, is ‘a pit, ‘a perilous cavity, or
defile; and here and elsewhere in the / it leads the reader to think of a dan-

crous defile, with water flowing through it. It becomes symbolic of danger,
and what the authors of the Text had in mind was to show how danger
should be encountered, its effect on the mind, and how to get out of it.

The trigram exhibits a strong central line, between two divided lines.
The central represented to King Wen the sincere honesty and goodness
of the subject of the hexagram, whose mind was sharpened and made
penetrating by contact with danger, and who acted in a manner worthy
of his character. It is implied, though the [Judgment] does not say it, that
he would get out of the danger.

Line 1 is weak, at the bottom of the figure, and has no correlate above,
no helper, that is, beyond itself. All these things render the case of its sub-
ject hopeless. He will by his efforts only involve himself more deeply in
danger.

Line 2 is strong, and in the centre. [ts subject is unable, indeed, to escape
altogether from the danger; but he does not involve himself more deeply
in it like the subject of 1, and obtains some ease.

Line 3 is weak, and occupies the place of a strong line. Its subject is in
an evil case.

Line 4 is weak, and will get no help from its correlate in 1. Its subject is
not one who can avert the danger threatening himself and others. But his
position is close to that of the ruler in 5, whose intimacy he cultivates with
an unostentatious sincerity, symbolled by the appointments of the simple
feast, and whose intelligence he cautiously enlightens. In consequence,
there will be no error.

The subject of line § is on the eve of extrication and deliverance. The
waters of the defile will ere long have free vent and disappear, and the
ground will be levelled and made smooth. The line is strong, in a proper
place, and in the place of honour.

The case of the subject of line 6 is hopeless. When danger has reached
its highest point, there he is, represented by a weak line, and with no proper
correlate below. The ‘thicket of thorns’ is taken as a metaphor for a prison;
but if the expression has a history, I have been unable to find it.

On the Commentary

On paragraph 2 Liang Yin says: — ‘Water stops at the proper time, and
moves at the proper time. Is not this an emblem of the course of the supe-
rior man in dealing with danger?’

On paragraph 4 the K’ang-hsi editors say that to exercise one’s self in
meeting difficulty and peril is the way to establish and strengthen the
character, and that the use of such experience is seen in all measures for
166 Kay

self-defence, there being no helmet and mail like leal-heartedness and goog
faith, and no shield and tower like propriety and righteousness.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The application of.the Great Symbolism is here more perplexing evey
than usual. What is said of the superior man is good, but there is no refer.
ence in it to the subject of danger.

The subject of line 3 goes and comes, moves up and down, backwards
and forwards; making no advance. This can be of no use in extricating him
from the danger.

Those represented in line 4 by the strong and weak lines are the ruler
and his minister.
 

Li 167
— — 30
Ld
—_— The Clinging [Brightness]
Component Trigrams V,
— — Above: Li—fire, brightness, beauty
— — Below: Li—fire, brightness, beauty
JUDGMENT

Li indicates that, (in regard to what it denotes), it will be ad-
vantageous to be firm and correct, and that thus there will be free
course and success. Let (its subject) also nourish (a docility like
that of) the cow, and there will be good fortune.

COMMENTARY

Li means being attached to. The sun and moon have their place
in the sky. All the grains, grass, and trees have their place on the
earth. The double brightness (of the two trigrams) adheres to what
is correct, and the result is the transforming and perfecting all
under the sky.

The weak (second line) occupies the middle and correct posi-
tion, and gives the indication of ‘a free and successful course;’ and,
moreover, ‘nourishing (docility like that of} the cow’ will lead to
good fortune.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of} brightness, repeated, forms Li. The great man,
in accordance with this, cultivates more and more his brilliant
(virtue), and diffuses its brightness over the four quarters (of the
land).

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows one ready to move with con-
168 Li

fused steps. But he treads at the same time reverently, and there
will be no mistake. i

‘The reverent attention directed to his confused steps’ is the
way by which error is avoided.

0 Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject in his place in yel-
low. There will be great good fortune.

“The great good fortune (from the subject of the second line)
occupying his place in yellow’ is owing to his holding the course
of the due mean.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject in a position like
that of the declining sun. Instead of playing on his instrument of
earthenware, and singing to it, he utters the groans of an old man
of eighty. There will be evil.

‘A position like that of the declining sun:’— how can it continue
long?

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows the manner of its subject’s
coming. How abrupt it is, as with fire, with death, to be rejected
(by all)!

‘How abrupt is the manner of his coming!’ —none can bear
with him.

OS8ix in the fifth place:
The fifth line, divided, shows its subject as one with tears flow-
ing in torrents, and groaning in sorrow. There will be good fortune.
‘The good fortune attached to the fifth line, divided,” is due to
its occupying the place of a king or a prince.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows the king employing its sub-
ject in his punitive expeditions. Achieving admirable (merit), he
breaks (only) the chiefs (of the rebels). Where his prisoners were
not their associates, he does not punish. There will be no error.

‘The king employs him in his punitive expeditions:’— the ob-
ject is to bring the regions to a correct state.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Li is the name of the trigram representing fire and light, and the sun
as the source of both of these. Its virtue or attribute is brightness, and by
a natural metaphor intelligence. But Li has also the meaning of inhering in,
or adhering to, being attached to. Both these significations occur in con-
” 169
sexion with the hexagram, and make it difficult to determine what was the
abject of it in the minds of the authors. If we take the whole figure as ex-

ressing the subject, we have, as in the [Commentary], ‘a double bright-
ess, 3 phrase which is understood to denominate the ruler. If we take the
wo central lines as indicating the subject, we have weakness, dwelling with
qrength above and below. In either case there are required from the sub-
«ct a strict adherence to what is correct, and a docile humility. On the
cond member of the [Judgment] Ch'eng-tzu says: — ‘The nature of the
quis docile, and that of the cow is much more so. The subject of the hexa-
gram adhering closely to what is correct, he must Le able to act in obedience
wit, as docile as a cow, and then there will be good fortune.’

Line 1 is strong, and at the bottom of ‘the trigram for fire, the nature of
which is to ascend. Its subject therefore will move upwards, and is in
danger of doing so coarsely and vehemently. But the lowest line has hardly
entered into the action of the figure, and this consideration operates to
make him reverently careful of his movements; and there is no error.

Line 2 is weak, and occupies the centre. Yellow is one of the five correct
colours, and here symbolises the correct course to which the subject of the
line adheres.

Line 3 is at the top of the lower trigram, whose light may be considered
exhausted, and suggests the symbol of the declining sun. The subject of
the line should accept the position, and resign himself to the ordinary
amusements which are mentioned, but he groans and mourns instead. His
strength interferes with the lowly contentment which he should cherish.

The strength of line 4, and its being in an even place, make its subject
appear in this unseemly manner, disastrous to himself.

Line 5 is in the place of honour, and central. But it is weak, as is its
correlate. Its position between the strong 4 and 6 fills its subject with anxi-
ety and apprehension, that express themselves as is described. But such
demonstrations are a proof of his inward adherence to right and his humil-
ity. There will be good fortune.

Line 6, strong and at the top of the figure, has the intelligence denoted
by its trigrams in the highest degree, and his own proper vigour. Through
these his achievements are great, but his generous consideration is equally
conspicuous, and he falls into no error.

On the Commentary

“The double brightness’ in paragraph I has been much discussed. Some
Say that it means ‘the ruler,” becoming brighter and brighter. Others say
that it means both the ruler and his ministers, combining their brightness.
The former view seems to me the better. The analogy between the natural
objects and a transforming and perfecting rule is far fetched.

“The central and correct position’ in paragraph 2 can be said only of the
Second line, and not of the fifth, where an undivided line would be more
Correct. The ‘and moreover’ of the translation is ‘therefore’ in the original;
but I cannot make out the force and suitability of that conjunction.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines
In the Great Symbolism Li is used in the sense of brightness. There was
170 I

no occasion to refer to its other meaning. “The great man’ rather contin,
the interpretation of the ‘double brightness’ in the [Commentary] as ind.
cating the ruler.

[Line] 2. As yellow is a ‘correct’ colour, so is the due mean the corre.
course.

[Line] 3. “The declining sun,’ say the K’ang-hsi editors, ‘is an emblem,
the obscuration coming over the virtue of the mind.’

{Line] 4. ‘None can bear with him’ refers to the second part of the syn
bolism of the line, which is not given here.
HSIEN 171

31
HSIEN
Influence

lll

Component Trigrams

Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

— — Below: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Hsien indicates that, (on the fulfilment of the conditions implied
in it), there will be free course and success. Its advantageousness
will depend on the being firm and correct, (as) in marrying a young
lady. There will be good fortune.

COMMENTARY

Hsien is here used in the sense of Kan, meaning (mutually)
influencing.

The weak (trigram) above, and the strong one below; their two
influences moving and responding to each other, and thereby
forming a union; the repression (of the one) and the satisfaction
(of the other); (with their relative position), where the male is
placed below the female: —all these things convey the notion of
‘a free and successful course (on the fulfilment of the conditions),
while the advantage will depend on being firm and correct, as in
marrying a young lady, and there will be good fortune’

Heaven and earth exert their influences, and there ensue the
transformation and production of all things. The sages influence
the minds of men, and the result is harmony and peace all under
the sky. If we look at (the method and issues) of those influences,
the true character of heaven and earth and of all things can be seen.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] 2 mountain and above it that for (the waters of)
a marsh form Hsien. The superior man, in accordance with this,
172 Hs,

keeps his mind free from pre-occupation, and open to receive (the
influences of) others.

THE LINES

Six mn the first place:
The first line, divided, shows one moving his great toes.

‘He moves his great toe:’—his mind is set on what is beyond
(himself).

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows one moving the calves of his
leg. There will be evil. If he abide (quiet in his place), there will
be good fortune.

Though ‘there would be evil; yet, if he abide (quiet) in his place,
there will be good fortune:’— through compliance (with the cir-
cumstances of his condition and place) there will be no injury.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows one moving his thighs, and
keeping close hold of those whom he follows. Going forward (in
this way) will cause regret.

‘He moves his thighs:’—he still does not (want to) rest in his
place. His will is set on ‘following others:’— what he holds in his
grasp is low.

O Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows that firm correctness which
will lead to good fortune, and prevent all occasion for repentance.
If its subject be unsettled in his movements, (only) his friends
will follow his purpose.

‘Firm correctness will lead to good fortune, and prevent all
occasion for repentance’ — there has not yet been any harm from
(a selfish wish to) influence. ‘He is unsettled in his movements: —
(his power to influence) is not yet either brilliant or great.

O Nine in the fifth place:
The fifth line, undivided, shows one moving the flesh along the
spine above the heart. There will be no occasion for repentance.
‘He (tries to) move the flesh along the spine above the heart.’ —
his aim is trivial.

Six at the top:
The sixth line, divided, shows one moving his jaws and tongue.
‘He moves his jaws and tongue:’ — he (only) talks with Joquacious
mouth.
HSIEN 173

LEGGE’S NOTES

With the 31st hexagram commences the Second Section of the Text. It
is difficult to say why any division of the hexagrams should be made here,
for the student tries in vain to discover any continuity in the thoughts of
the author that is now broken. The First Section does not contain a class of
subjects different from those which we find in the Second. That the divi-
sion was made, however, at a very early time, appears from [“The Orderly
Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV], where the writer sets forth an
analogy between the first and second figures, representing heaven and
earth, as the originators of all things, and this figure and the next, repre-
senting (each of them) husband and wife, as the originators of all the social
relations, This, however, is far from carrying conviction to my mind. The
division of the Text of the / into two sections is a fact of which I am unable
to give a satisfactory account.

Hsien, as explained in the [Commentary], has here the meaning of
mutual influence, and the duke of Chou, on the various lines, always uses
Kan for it in the sense of ‘moving’ or ‘influencing to movement or action.’
This is to my mind the subject of the hexagram considered as an essay, —
‘Influence; the different ways of bringing it to bear, and their issues.’

The Chinese character called hsien is IG the graphic symbol for ‘all,
together, jointly.’ Kan, the symbol for ‘influencing,’ has hsien in it as its
phonetic constituent (though the changes in pronunciation make it hard
for an English reader to ap oreciate this), with the addition of hsin, the sym-
bol for ‘the heart.’ Thus t kan, ‘to affect or influence,’ = mK + XD; and
it may have been that wht the name or word was used with the signifi-
cance of ‘influencing,’ the MD was purposely dropt from it, to indicate the

most important element in the thing, — the absence of all purpose or motive.
I venture to think that this would have been a device worthy of a diviner.
With regard to the idea of husband and wife being in the teaching of the
hexagram, it is derived from the more recent symbolism of the eight tri-
grams ascribed to King Wen, and exhibited [in Legge’s Introduction] and
Plate III. The more ancient usage of them is given in the paragraph on the
Great Symbolism. The figure consists of Ken, ‘the youngest son,’ and over
it Tui, ‘the youngest daughter.’ These are in ‘happy union.’ No influence, it
is said, is so powerful and constant as that between husband and wife; and
where these are young, it is especially active. Hence it is that Hsien is
made up of Ken and Tui. All this is to me very doubtful. I can dimly ap-
prehend why the whole line was assumed as the symbol of strength and
authority, and the broken line as that of weakness and submission. Beyond
this I cannot follow Fu-hsi in his formation of the trigrams; and still less
can J assent to the more recent symbolism of them ascribed to King Wen.
Coming now to the figure, and its lines, the subject-is that of mutual in-
fluence; and the author teaches that that influence, correct in itself, and for
correct ends, is sure to be effective. He gives an instance,—the case of a
man marrying a young lady, the regulations for which have been laid down
174 Hsizy

in China from the earliest times with great strictness and particularity,
Such influence will be effective and fortunate.

Line | is weak, and at the bottom of the hexagram. Though 4 be a proper
correlate, yet the influence indicated by it must be ineffective. However
much a man’s great toes may be moved, that will not enable him to walk.

The calves cannot move of themselves. They follow the moving of the
feet. The moving of them indicates too much anxiety to move. Line 2,
moreover, is weak. But it is also the central line, and if its subject abide
quiet, till he is acted on from above, there will be good fortune.

Neither can the thighs move of themselves. The attempt to move them
is inauspicious. Its subject, however, the line being strong, and in an odd
place, will wish to move, and follows the subject of 4, which is understood
to be the seat of the mind. He exercises his influence therefore with a mind
and purpose, which is not good.

Line 4 is strong, but in an even place. It is the seat of the mind. Its sub-
ject therefore is warned to be firm and correct in order to [effect} a good
issue. If he be wavering and uncertain, his influence will not extend beyond
the circle of his friends.

The symbolism of line 5 refers to a part of the body behind the heart,
and is supposed therefore to indicate an influence, ineffective indeed, but
free from selfish motive, and not needing to be repented of.

Line 6 is weak, and in an even place. It is the topmost line also of the
trigram of satisfaction. Its influence by means of speech will only be that of
loquacity and flattery, the evil of which needs not to be pointed out.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 2. Tui, the upper trigram, is weak and yin; and Ken, the lower,
is strong and yang; see [““The Great Treatise,” in Part IV], ii, 4, and [*Trea-
tise of Remarks on the Trigrams,” in Part IV], 10. Ken is below Tui;
whereas the subject of the lower trigram should always take the initiative
in these figures. - :

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

In various ways the waters of a marsh, placed high above the adjacent
land, will descend to water and fertilise them. This symbolism agrees suf-
ficiently well with the idea of influence passing between a superior and in-
ferior party in relation with each other. There is nothing in the representa-
tion, however, to suggest particularly the relation between husband and
wife; and the more I think of it, the more doubtful it becomes to me that
King Wen intended by the trigrams of this figure to give the idea of man
and wife. The application of the symbolism is sufficiently appropriate. The
commentators see in it especially the lesson of humility — emptiness of self,
or poverty of spirit—in order that the influences to which we are subjected
may have free course.

{Line} 1. What is beyond one’s self is represented by line 4, a proper cor-
relate of 1. There is the desire to influence; but it is ineffectively exhibited.

{Line] 2. ‘Compliance (with the circumstances of his condition and
place)’ is merely another way of ‘being firm and correct.’

{Line] 3. The language, ‘What he holds in his grasp is low,’ makes Chu
HSIEN 175

Hsi and the older commentators generally understand low of lines 1 and
2, and their weak subjects. But ‘following’ leads the mind to the lines above,
as the K’ang-hsi editors point out. ‘Low’ is to be understood in the sense
of ‘mean.’

[Line] 4. The ‘being firm and correct’ appears here as equivalent to the
want of ‘a selfish wish to influence.’

[Line] 5. The triviality of the aim explains the ineffectiveness of the
movement, but not its giving no occasion for repentance. That the mei
which are moved are behind and above the region of the heart seems too
mechanical and trivial an explanation.
2

— 32
——— HENG
— — Perseverence (Duration)

Component Trigrams

Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness
. Below: Sun — wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Heng indicates successful progress and no error (in what it de-
notes). But the advantage will come from being firm and correct;
and movement in any direction whatever will be advantageous.

COMMENTARY

Heng denotes long continuance. The strong (trigram) is above,
and the weak one below; (they are the symbols of) thunder and
wind, which are in mutual communication; (they have the qualities
of) docility and motive force; their strong and weak (lines) all re-
spond, each to the other: — these things are all found in Heng.

(When it is said that) ‘Heng indicates successful progress and no
error (in what it denotes); but the advantage will come from being
firm and correct,’ this indicates that there must be long continuance
in its way of operation. The way of heaven and earth is to be long
continued in their operation without stopping.

(When it is said that) ‘Movement in any direction whatever will
be advantageous,’ this implies that when (the moving power) is
spent, it will begin again.

The sun and moon, realising in themselves (the course of Heaven),
can perpetuate their shining. The four seasons, by their changing
and transforming, can perpetuate their production (of things). The
sages persevere long in their course, and all under the sky are trans-
formed and perfect. When we look at what they continue doing
long, the natural tendencies of heaven, earth, and all things can
be seen.
HENG 177

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] thunder and that for wind form Heng. The
superior man, in accordance with this, stands firm, and does not
change his method (of operation).

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject deeply (desirous) of
long continuance. Even with firm correctness there will be evil;
there will be no advantage in any way.

“The evil attached to the deep desire for long continuance (in
the subject of the first line) arises from the deep seeking for it at
the commencement (of things).

O Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows all occasion for repentance
disappearing.

‘All occasion for repentance on the part of the subject of the sec-
ond line, undivided, disappears: —he can abide long in the due
mean,

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows one who does not continuously
maintain his virtue. There are those who will impute this to him as
a disgrace. However firm he may be, there will be ground for regret.

‘He does not continuously maintain his virtue:’ — nowhere will
he be borne with.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows a field where there is no
game.

(Going) for long to what is not his proper place, how can he get
game?

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject continuously main-
taining the virtue indicated by it. In a wife this will be fortunate;
in a husband, evil.

‘Such firm correctness tn a wife will be fortunate: —it is hers to
the end of life to follow with an unchanged mind. The husband
must decide what is right, and lay down the rule accordingly: —
for him to follow (like) a wife is evil.
178 Heng

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject exciting himself to
long continuance. There will be evil.

‘The subject of the topmost line is exciting himself to long con-
tinuance:’ — far will he be from achieving merit.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The subject of this hexagram may be given as perseverance in well
doing, or in continuously acting out the law of one’s being. [“The Orderly
Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV,] makes it a sequel of the previous
figure. As that treats, it is said, of the relation between husband and wife, so
this treats of the continuous observance of their respective duties. Hsien,
we saw, is made up of Ken, the symbol of the youngest son, and Tui, the
symbol of the youngest daughter, attraction and influence between the
sexes being strongest in youth. Heng consists of Sun, the oldest daughter,
and Chen, the oldest son. The couple are more staid. The wife occupies the
lower place; and the relation between them is marked by her submission.
This is sound doctrine, especially from a Chinese point of view; but I doubt
whether such application of his teaching was in the mind of King Wen.
Given two parties, an inferior and superior in correlation. If both be con-
tinuously observant of what is correct, the inferior being also submissive,
and the superior firm, good fortune and progress may be predicated of their
course. .

Line 1 has a proper correlate in 4; but between them are two strong
lines; and it is itself weak. These two conditions are against its subject re-
ceiving much help from the subject of 4. He should be quiet, and not for-
ward for action.

Line 2 is strong, but in the place of a weak line. Its position, however,
being central, and its subject holding fast to the due mean, the unfavour-
able condition of an even place is more than counteracted.

Line 3 is strong, and in its proper place; but being beyond the centre of
the trigram, its subject is too strong, and coming under the attraction of his
correlate in 6, he is supposed to be ready to abandon his place and virtue.
He may try to be firm and correct, but circumstances are adverse to him.

Line 4 is strong in the place of a weak line, and suggests the symbolism
of the duke of Chou.

The weak Sth line responds to the strong 2nd, and may be supposed to
represent a wife conscious of her weakness, and docilely submissive; which
is good. A husband, however, and a man generally, has to assert himself,
and lay down the rule of what is right.

In line 6 the principle of perseverance has run its course; the motive
power of Chen is exhausted. The line itself is weak. The violent efforts of
its subject can only lead to evil.

On the Commentary

All the conditions in paragraph | must be understood as leading to the
indication of progress and success, which is explained in paragraph 2, and
illustrated by the analogy of the course of heaven and earth.
HENG 179

‘Movement in any direction,’ as explained in paragraph 3, indicates the
ever-occurring new modes and spheres of activity, to which he who is firm
and correct is called.

Paragraph 4, and especially its concluding sentence, are of a meditative
and reflective character not uncommon in the [Commentary] .

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

How the interaction of wind and thunder symbolises the lesson of the
hexagram, and especially the application in this paragraph of that symbol-
ism, is a question I have not been able to solve.

[Line] 1. The stress of what is said under line 1 is here made to lie on its
being the first line of the figure.

[Line] 2. Line 2 is in the centre of its trigram, and that position, here as
often elsewhere, symbolises the course of its subject.

[Line] 3. The K’ang-hsi editors make the application here = ‘nowhere can
he bear (to remain)’

From [line] 5 it appears that what is right will vary in different cases.
The lesson of the hexagram is perseverance in what is right in each particu-
lar case.
—

80 Tun

33
TUN
Retreat

Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

Below: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Tun indicates successful progress (in its circumstances). To a
small extent it will (still) be advantageous to be firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

“Tun indicates successful progress:’—that is, in the very retiring
which Tun denotes there is such progress. The strong (line) is in
the ruling place, (the fifth), and is properly responded to (by the
second line). The action takes place according to (the requirement
of) the time.

‘To a small extent it will (still) be advantageous to be firm and
correct: — (the small men) are gradually encroaching and ad-
vancing.

Great indeed is the significance of (what is required to be done
in) the time that necessitates retiring.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of | the sky and below it that for a mountain form
Tun. The superior man, in accordance with this, keeps small men
at a distance, not by showing that he hates them, but by his own
dignified gravity.

THELINES

© Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows a retiring tail. The position is peril-
ous. No movement in any direction should be made.
TUN 181

There is ‘the perilousness of the position shown by the retiring
tail;’— but if ‘no movement’ be made, what disaster can there be?

e Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject holding (his purpose)
fast as if by a (thong made from the) hide of a yellow ox, which can-
not be broken.

‘He holds it as by (a thong from the hide of) a yellow ox:’—his
purpose is firm.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows one retiring but bound,—to
his distress and peril. (If he were to deal with his binders as in)
nourishing a servant or concubine, it would be fortunate for him.

‘The peril connected with the case of one retiring, though bound,’
is due to the (consequent) distress and exhaustion. ‘If he were (to
deal as in) nourishing a servant or concubine, it would be for-
tunate for him: —but a great affair cannot be dealt with in this
way.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject retiring notwith-
standing his likings. In a superior man this will lead to good for-
tune; a small man cannot attain to this.

‘A superior man retires notwithstanding his likings; a small man
cannot attain to this.’

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject retiring in an ad-
mirable way. With firm correctness there will be good fortune.

‘He retires in an admirable way, and with firm correctness there
will be good fortune:’—this is due to the rectitude of his purpose.

Nine at the top: ©

The sixth line, undivided, shows its subject retiring in a noble
way. It will be advantageous in every respect.

‘He retires in a noble way, and his doing so will be advantageous
in every respect:’—he who does so has no doubts about his course.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Tun is the hexagram of the sixth month; the yin influence is represented
by two weak lines, and has made good its footing in the year. The figure
thus suggested to King Wen the growth of small and unprincipled men in
the state, before whose advance superior men were obliged to retire. This
is the theme of his essay,—how, ‘when small men multiply and increase
in power, the necessity of the time requires superior men to withdraw be-
182 Tun

fore them.” Yet the auspice of Tun is not all bad. By firm correctness the
threatened evil may be arrested to a small extent.

‘A retiring tail’ seems to suggest the idea of the subject of the lines hurry-
ing away, which would only aggravate the evil and danger of the time.

‘His purpose’ in line 2 is the purpose to withdraw. The weak 2 responds
correctly to the strong 5, and both are central. The purpose therefore is
symbolled as in the text. The ‘yellow’ colour of the ox is introduced be-
cause of its being ‘correct,’ and of a piece with the central place of the line.

Line 3 has no proper correlate in 6; and its subject allows himself to be
entangled and impeded by the subjects of 1 and 2. He is too familiar with
them, and they presume, and fetter his movements; — compare Analects,
17. 25. He should keep them at a distance.

Line 4 has a correlate in 1, and is free to exercise the decision belonging
to its subject. The line is the first in Chien symbolic of strength.

In the Shu, I'V, v, Section 2,9, the worthy I Yin is made to say, “The min-
ister will not for favour or gain continue in an office whose work is done;
and the K’apg-hsi editors refer to his words as an illustration of what is
said on line 5. It has its correlate in 2, and its subject carries out the pur-
pose to retire ‘in an admirable way.’

Line 6 is strong, and with no correlate to detain it in 3. Its subject vigor-
ously and happily carries out the idea of the hexagram.

On the Commentary

Chu Hsi says: —‘The sky is illimitable; a mountain is high, but has its
limits; the union of these is an emblem of retiring.” I do not understand
such embleming. Ch’eng-tzu says: — ‘Below the sky is a mountain. The
mountain rises up below the sky, and its height is arrested, while the sky
goes up higher and higher, till they come to be apart from each other. In
this we have an emblem of retiring and avoiding.” We feel somewhat as if
there were a meaning in this; but, as in many other cases, both the sym-
bolism and its application are but dimly apprehended.

The symbolism of the various lines is sufficiently explained on the Text.
Paragraph 5 is but a repetition of the Text without additional explanation.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

“The superior man,’ it is said, ‘advances or withdraws according to the
character of the time. The strength and correct position of the fifth line
show that he is able to maintain himself; and as it is responded to by the
weak second line, no opposition to what is correct in him would come
from any others. He might therefore keep his place; but looking at the two
weak lines, 1 and 2, he recognises in them the advance and irrepressible
progress of small men, and that for a time it is better for him to give way
and withdraw from the field. Thus there is successful progress even in his
retiring.’
Ta CHUANG 183

F 4

TA CHUANG
The Power of the Great

I]

Component Trigrams

Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

Below: Ch'ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

JUDGMENT

Ta Chuang indicates that (under the conditions which it sym-
bolises) it will be advantageous to be firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

In Ta Chuang we see that which is great becoming strong. We
have the (trigram) denoting strength directing that which denotes
movement, and hence (the whole) is expressive of vigour.

“Ta Chuang indicates that it will be advantageous to be firm and
correct:’— that which is great (should be) correct. Given correct-
ness and greatness (in their highest degree), and the character and
tendencies of heaven and earth can be seen.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] heaven and above it that for thunder form Ta
Chuang. The superior man, in accordance with this, does not take
a step which is not according to propriety.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows its subject manifesting his
strength in his toes. But advance will lead to evil, — most certainly.
‘He manifests his vigour in his toes:’— this will certainly lead to
exhaustion.
184 Ta CruanNg

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows that with firm correctness
there will be good fortune.

‘The second line, undivided, shows that with firm correctness
there will be good fortune:’— this is due to its being in the centre,
(and its subject exemplifying the due mean).

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows, in the case of a small man, one
using all his strength; and in the case of a superior man, one whose
rule is not to do so. Even with firm correctness the position would
be perilous. (The exercise of strength in it might be compared to
the case of) a ram butting against a fence, and getting his horns
entangled.

“The small man uses all his strength; in the case of the superior
man it is his rule not to do so.’

© Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows (a case in which) firm correct-
ness leads to good fortune, and occasion for repentance disappears.
(We see) the fence opened without the horns being entangled. The
strength is like that in the wheel-spokes of a large waggon.

‘The fence is opened and the horns are not entangled: — (the
subject of the line) still advances.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows one who loses his ram(-like strength)
in the ease of his position. (But) there will be no occasion for re-
pentance.

‘He loses his ram and hardly perceives it’—he is not in his
appropriate place.

Sux at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows (one who may be compared to)
the ram butting against the fence, and unable either to retreat, or to
advance as he would fain do. There will not be advantage in any
respect; but if he realise the difficulty (of his position), there will
be good fortune.

‘He is unable either to retreat or to advance: — this is owing to
his want of care. ‘If he realise the difficulty (of his position), there
will be good fortune:’ — his error will not be prolonged.

LEGGE'S NOTES

The strong lines predominate in Ta Chuang. It suggested to King Wen a
state or condition of things in which there was abundance of strength and
Ta CHUANG 185

vigour. Was strength alone enough for the conduct of affairs? No. He saw
also in the figure that which suggested to him that strength should be held
in subordination to the idea of right, and exerted only in harmony with it.

This is the lesson of the hexagram, as sententiously expressed in the
[Judgment].

Line 1 is strong, in its correct place, and also the first line in Ch’ien, the
hexagram of strength, and the first line in Ta Chuang. The idea of the figure
might seem to be concentrated in it; and hence we have it symbolised by
‘strength in the toes,’ or ‘advancing.’ But such a measure is too bold to be
undertaken by one in the lowest place, and moreover there is no proper
correlate in 4. Hence comes the evil auspice.

Line 2 is strong, but the strength is tempered by its being in an even
place, instead of being excited by it, as might be feared. Then the place is
that in the centre. With firm correctness there will be good fortune.

Line 3 is strong, and in its proper place. It is at the top moreover of
Ch’ien. A small man so symbolled will use his strength to the utmost; but
not so the superior man. For him the position is beyond the safe middle,
and he will be cautious; and not injure himself, like the ram, by exerting
his strength.

Line 4 is still strong, but in the place of a weak line; and this gives oc-
casion to the cautions with which the symbolism commences. The subject
of the line going forward thus cautiously, his strength will produce good
effects, such as are described.

Line § is weak, and occupies a central place. Its subject will cease there-
fore to exert his strength; but this hexagram does not forbid the employ-
ment of strength, but would only control and direct it. All that is said about
him is that he will give no occasion for repentance.

Line 6 being at the top of Chen, the symbol of movement, and at the top
of Ta Chuang, its subject may be expected to be active in exerting his
strength; and through his weakness, the result would be as described. But
he becomes conscious of his weakness, reflects and rests, and good fortune
results, as he desists from the prosecution of his unwise efforts.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1. “That which is great’ denotes, in the first place, the group
of four strong lines which strikes us on looking at the figure, and then the
superior man, or the strong men in positions of power, of whom these are
the representatives. Chien is the trigram of strength, and Chen that of
movement.

Paragraph 2. “That which is great (should be) correct.’ — that the ‘should
be’ must be supplied in the translation appears from this, that the para-
graph is intended to illustrate the text that ‘it will be advantageous to be
firm and correct.” The power of man becomes then a reflexion of the great
power which we see working in nature, ‘impartially, ‘unselfishly.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

In illustration of the symbolism of the trigrams here, Ch'eng-tzu says
well: — ‘Thunder rolling above in the sky and making all things shake is
the emblem of great power.” In passing on to its application he starts with
186 Ta Cuuang

a beautiful saying of antiquity, that ‘the strong man is he who overcomes
himself.” That this thought was in the mind of the writer of the paragraph
on the Great Symbolism I can well believe; but the analogy between the
natural and the moral and spiritual worlds in passing from the phenomenon
of thunder to this truth is a thing to be felt, and that can hardly be de.
scribed.

[Line] 1. “This will lead to exhaustion; and from that will follow dis.
tress and other evils.

The central position and the due moral mean in [line] 2 is another
instance of the felt analogy referred to above.

In {line] 3 nothing is added to the Text; and on the symbolism nothing
is said.

[Line] 5. ‘He is not in his appropriate place: this is said simply because
an odd place ought to be filled by a strong line.
CHIN 187

35
CHIN
Progress

ih

Component Trigrams

— — Above: Li fire, brightness, beauty

— — Below: K'un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

In Chin we see a prince who secures the tranquillity (of the
people) presented on that account with numerous horses (by the
king), and three times in a day received at interviews.

COMMENTARY

Chin denotes advancing. (In Chin we have) the bright (sun) ap-
pearing above the earth; (the symbol of) docile submission cleaving
to that of the Great brightness; and the weak line advanced and
moving above: —all these things give us the idea of ‘a prince who
secures the tranquillity (of the people), presented on that account
with numerous horses (by the king), and three times in a day re-
ceived at interviews.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of] the earth and that for the bright (sun) coming
forth above it form Chin. The superior man, according to this,
gives himself to make more brilliant his bright virtue.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows one wishing to advance, and (at
the same time) kept back. Let him be firm and correct, and there
will be good fortune. If trust be not reposed in him, let him main-
tain a large and generous mind, and there will be no error.
188 Cuiy

‘He appears wishing to advance, but (at the same time) being
kept back: —all-alone he pursues the correct course. ‘Let him
maintain a large and generous mind, and there will be no error.’ —
he has not yet received an official charge.

Sx in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject with the appearance
of advancing, and yet of being sorrowful. If he be firm and correct,
there will be good fortune. He will receive this great blessing from
his grandmother.

‘He will receive this great blessing:’—for he is in the central
place and the correct position for him.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject trusted by all (around
him). All occasion for repentance will disappear.

‘All (around) trust him: —their (common) aim is to move up-
wards and act.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject with the appear-
ance of advancing, but like a marmot. However firm and correct
he may be, the position is one of peril.

‘(He advances like) a marmot. However firm and correct he may
be, his position is one of peril: —his place is not that appropriate
for him.

o Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows how all occasion for repentance
disappears (from its subject). (But) let him not concern himself
about whether he shall fail or succeed. To advance will be fortu-
nate, and in every way advantageous.

‘Let him not concern himself whether he fails or succeeds:’—
his movement in advance will afford ground for congratulation.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows one advancing his horns.
But he only uses them to punish the (rebellious people of his own)
city. The position is perilous, but there will be good fortune. (Yet)
however firm and correct he may be, there will be occasion for
regret.

‘He uses his horns only to punish (the rebellious people of) his
city:’ — his course of procedure is not yet brilliant.
CHIN 189

LEGGE’S NOTES

The [Judgment] of this hexagram expresses its subject more fully and
plainly than that of any of the previous thirty-four. It is about a feudal
prince whose services to the country have made him acceptable to his
king. The king’s favour has been shown to him by gifts and personal at-
tentions such as form the theme of more than one ode in the Shih; see
especially III, iii, 7. The symbolism of the lines dimly indicates the quali-
ties of such a prince. Chin means ‘to advance.’ Hexagrams 46 and 53 agree
with this in being called by names that indicate progress and advance. The
advance in Chin is like that of the sun, ‘the shining light, shining more and
more to the perfect day.’

Line 1] is weak, and in the lowest place, and its correlate in 4 is neither
central nor in its correct position. This indicates the small and obstructed
beginnings of his subject. But by his firm correctness he pursues the way
to good fortune; and though the king does not yet believe in him, he the
more pursues his noble course.

Line 2 is weak, and its correlate in 5 is also weak. Its subject therefore
has still to mourn in obscurity. But his position is central and correct, and
he holds on his way, till success comes ere long. The symbolism says he
receives it ‘from his grandmother;’ and readers will be startled by the extra-
ordinary statement, as I was when J first read it. Literally the Text says
‘the king’s mother,’ as P. Regis rendered it,—‘Istam magnam felicitatem
a matre regis recipit.’ He also tries to give the name a historical reference; —
to T’ai-Chiang, the grandmother of King Wen, T’ai-jen, his mother; or to
T’ai-ssu, his wife, and the mother of King Wu and the duke of Chou, all
famous in Chinese history, and celebrated in the Shih. But ‘king’s father’
and ‘king’s mother’ are wedl-known Chinese appellations for ‘grandfather’
and ‘grandmother.’ This is the view given on the passage, by Ch’eng-tzu,
Chu Hsi, and-the K’ang-hsi editors, the latter of whom, indeed, account
for the use of the name, instead of ‘deceased mother, which we find in
hexagram 62, by the regulations observed in the ancestral temple. These
authorities, moreover, all agree in saying that the name points us to line 5,
the correlate of 2, and ‘the lord of the hexagram.’ Now the subject of line 5
is the sovereign, who at length acknowledges the worth of the feudal lord,
and gives him the great blessing. The ‘New Digest of Comments on the /
(1686), in its paraphrase of the line, has, ‘He receives at last this great
blessing from the mild and compliant ruler.’ 1 am not sure that ‘motherly
king’ would not be the best and fairest translation of the phrase.

Canon McClatchie has a very astonishing note on the name, which he
renders ‘Imperial Mother’ (p. 164):— “That is, the wife of Imperial Heaven
QJJuno), who occupies the “throne of the diagram,” viz. the fifth stroke,
which is soft and therefore feminine. She is the Great Ancestress of the
human race. See Imp. Ed. vol. iv, Sect. v, p. 25, Com.’ Why such additions
to the written word?

Line 3 is weak, and in an odd place; but the subjects of 1 and 2 are pos-
sessed by the same desire to advance as the subject of this. A common
trust and aim possess them; and hence the not unfavourable auspice.
190 CHIN

Line 4 is strong, but it is in an even place, nor is it central. It suggests
the idea of a marmot (? or rat), stealthily advancing. Nothing could be more
opposed to the ideal of the feudal lord in the hexagram.

In line 5 that lord and his intelligent sovereign meet happily. He holds
on his right course, indifferent as to results, but things are so ordered that
he is, and will continue to be, crowned with success.

Line 6 is strong, and suggests the idea of its subject to the last continuing
his advance, and that not only with firm correctness, but with strong force.
The ‘horns’ are an emblem of threatening strength, and though he uses
them only in his own state, and against the rebellious there, that such a
prince should have any occasion to use force is matter for regret.

On the Commentary

To those who advocate the view that the hexagrams of the / have been
formed by changes of the lines in manipulating with the divining stalks,
the words of paragraph 2, that we have in the figure ‘the weak line ad-
vanced and moving above, suggest the derivation of Chin from K’un,
whose 4th and Sth lines are made to change places. But we have seen that
that view is inadmissible in the interpretation of the /. And a simple ex-
planation of the language at once presents itself. As Hsiang An-shih (Sung
dynasty) says, ‘Of the three “daughter” trigrams it is only Li which has its
divided line occupying the central place of honour, when it is the upper
trigram in a hexagram.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The sun rising above the earth, and then travelling up to his meridian
height, readily suggests the idea of advancing. On the application of this
symbolism, Hu Ping-wen (Ytian dynasty) says: —‘Of strong things there
is none so strong as heaven; and hence the superior man after its pattern
makes himself strong; of bright things there is none so bright as the sun,
and after its pattern he makes himself bright.’

If the subject of line 1 had received an official charge, then when un-
recognised by his sovereign, and obstructed in his progress, his correct
course would have been to cease to advance, and retire from the office in
which he was not allowed to carry out his principles.

There is nothing said on line 2 to explain particularly the symbolism of
‘the grandmother’ in the Text.

‘The course of procedure’ in [line] 6 has still an element of force in it,
which is more than ‘the firm correctness’ that was to King Wen the ideal
character of a feudal lord, and therefore his light is not yet that of the
full-orbed sun.
Ming 1 191

mk

—— MING | Darkening of the Light
(Intelligence Wounded)

 

Component Trigrams

— —— Above: K'un— the earth, female, passive, receptive

—— ~— Below: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

JUDGMENT

Ming I indicates that (in the circumstances which it denotes) it
will be advantageous to realise the difficulty (of the position), and
maintain firm correctness.

COMMENTARY

(The symbol of) the Earth and that of Brightness entering into
the midst of it give the idea of Ming I (Brightness wounded or
obscured).

The inner (trigram) denotes being accomplished and bright;
the outer, being pliant and submissive. The case of King Wen was
that of one who with these qualities was yet involved in great
difficulties.

‘It will be advantageous to realise the difficulty (of the position),
and maintain firm correctness:’ — that is, (the individual concerned)
should obscure his brightness. The case of the count of Chi was
that of one who, amidst the difficulties of his House, was able
(thus) to maintain his aim and mind correct.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] the earth and that for the bright (sun) entering
within it form Ming I. The superior man, in accordance with this,
conducts his management of men; —he shows his intelligence by
keeping it obscured.
192 Ming |

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject, (in the condition
indicated by) Ming I, flying, but with drooping wings. When the
superior man (is revolving) his going away, he may be for three
days without eating. Wherever he goes, the people there may speak
(derisively of him).

‘The superior man (is revolving his) going away:’— (in such a
case) he feels it right not to eat.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject, (in the condition
indicated by) Ming I, wounded in the left thigh. He saves himself
by the strength of a (swift) horse; and is fortunate,

‘The good fortune of (the subject of) the second line, divided,’
is due to the proper fashion of his acting according to his circum-
stances.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject, (in the condition
indicated by) Ming I, hunting in the south, and taking the great
chief (of the darkness). He should not be eager to make (all) cor-
rect (at once).

With the aim represented by ‘hunting in the south’ a great
achievement is accomplished.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject (just) entered into
the left side of the belly (of the dark land). (But) he is able to carry
out the mind appropriate (in the condition indicated by) Ming I,
quitting the gate and courtyard (of the lord of darkness).

‘He has (just) entered into the left side of the belly (of the dark
land): —he is still able to carry out the idea in his (inner) mind.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows how the count of Chi fulfilled the
condition indicated by Ming I. It will be advantageous to be firm
and correct,

‘With the firm correctness of the count of Chi,’ his brightness
could not be (quite) extinguished.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows the case where there is no light,
but (only) obscurity. (Its subject) had at first ascended to (the top
of) the sky; his future shall be to go into the earth.
Mine I 193

‘He had at first ascended to (the top of) the sky: — he might have
enlightened the four quarters of the kingdom. ‘His future shall be
to go into the earth’ —he has failed to fulfil the model (of a ruler).

LEGGE'S NOTES

In this hexagram we have the representation of a good and intelligent
minister or officer going forward in the service of his country, notwith-
standing the occupancy of the throne by a weak and unsympathising sov-
ereign. Hence comes its name of Ming I, or ‘Intelligence Wounded,” that
is, injured and repressed. The treatment of the subject shows how such an
officer will conduct himself, and maintain his purpose. The symbolism of
the figure is treated of in the same way in the [Commentary and Great
Symbolism}. [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV]
merely says that the advance set forth in 35 is sure to meet with wounding,
and hence Chin is followed by Ming I.

Line 1 is strong, and in its right place; —its subject should be going for-
ward. But the general signification of the hexagram supposes him to be
wounded. The wound, however, being received at the very commencement
of its action, is but slight. And hence comes the emblem of a bird hurt so
as to be obliged to droop its wings. The subject then appears directly as
‘the superior man.’ He sees it to be his course to desist from the struggle
for a time, and is so rapt in the thought that he can fast for three days and
not think of it. When he does withdraw, opposition follows him; but it is
implied that he holds on to his own good purpose.

Line 2 is weak, but also in its right place, and central; giving us the idea
of an officer, obedient to duty and the right. His wound in the left thigh
may impede his movements, but does not disable him. He finds means to
save himself, and maintains his good purpose.

Line 3, strong and in a strong place, is the topmost line of the lower
trigram. It responds also to line 6, in which the idea of the sovereign, em-
blemed by the upper trigram, is concentrated. The lower trigram is the
emblem of light or brightness, the idea of which again is expressed by the
south, to which we turn when we look at the sun in its meridian height.
Hence the subject of the line becomes a hunter pursuing his game, and
successfully. The good officer will be successful in his struggle; but let
him not be over eager to put all things right at once.

Line 4 is weak, but in its right place. Chu Hsi says he does not under-
stand the symbolism, as given in the Text. The translation indicates the
view of it commonly accepted. The subject of the line evidently escapes
from his position of danger with little damage.

Line § should be the place of the ruler or sovereign in the hexagram; but
6 is assigned as that place in Ming I. The officer occupying 5, the centre
of the upper trigram, and near to the sovereign, has his ideal in the count
of Chi, whose action appears in the Shu, III, pp. 123, 127, 128. He is a
historical personage.

Line 6 sets forth the fate of the ruler, who opposes himself to the officer
who would do him good and intelligent service. Instead of becoming as the
194 Ming |

sun, enlightening all from the height of the sky, he is as the sun hidden be,
low the earth. I can well believe that the writer had the last king of Shang
in his mind. :

On the Commentary

The sun disappearing, as we say, ‘below the earth,’ or, as the Chines
writer conceives it, ‘into the midst of, or within the earth, sufficiently
indicates the obscuration or wounding of brightness, —the repression and
resistance of the good and bright.

King Wen was not of the line of Shang. Though opposed and persecuted
by its sovereign, he could pursue his own course, till his line came in the
end to supersede the other. It could not be so with the count of Chi, whe
was a member of the House of Shang. He could do nothing that would
help on its downfall.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The application of the Great Symbolism here is in itself sufficiently
natural; .but this meaning of the hexagram hardly appears in the text, till
we come to the sixth line.

{Line} 1. ‘He thinks it right not to eat; — he does not purposely fast; but
when he has nothing to eat, he does not complain. He thinks it right that
it should be so in the case.

[Line] 2. “The proper fashion of acting’ is suggested by the weak line's
being in the central place.

[Line] 3. “The great achievement is accomplished;” but such achievement
was not what prompted to action.

[Line] 4. “The idea in his inner mind’ is the idea of withdrawing from
the position and escaping; but the meaning is obscure.
CHlA JEN 195

 

Component Trigrams

Above: Sun — wind, gentle, wood, penetration

Below: Li— fire, brightness, beauty

JUDGMENT

For (the realisation of what is taught in) Chia Jen, (or for the
regulation of the family), what is most advantageous is that the
wife be firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

In Chia Jen the wife has her correct place in the inner (trigram),
and the man his correct place in the outer. That man and woman
occupy their correct places is the great righteousness shown (in
the relation and positions of) heaven and earth.

In Chia Jen we have the idea of an authoritative ruler; —that,
namely, represented by the parental authority.

Let the father be indeed father, and the son son; let the elder
brother be indeed elder brother, and the younger brother younger;
let the husband be indeed husband, and the wife wife: — then will
the family be in its normal state. Bring the family to that state,
and all under heaven will be established.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of} fire, and that for wind coming forth from it,
form Chia Jen. The superior man, in accordance with this, orders
his words according to (the truth of) things, and his conduct so
that it is uniformly consistent.
196 . CHIA Ey

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject establishing restric.
tive regulations in his household. Occasion for repentance wil
disappear.

‘He establishes restrictive regulations in his household: — (he
does so), before any change has taken place in their wills.

o Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject taking nothing on
herself, but in her central place attending to the preparation of the
food. Through her firm correctness there will be good fortune.

“The good fortune attached to the second line, divided,’ is due to
the docility (of its subject), operating with humility.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject (treating) the mem-
bers of the household with stern severity. There will be occasion
for repentance, there will be peril, (but) there will (also) be good
fortune. If the wife and children were to be smirking and chatter-
ing, in the end there would be occasion for regret.

When ‘the members of the household are treated with stern
severity,” there has been no (great) failure (in the regulation of the
family). When ‘wife and children are smirking and chattering,’
the (proper) economy of the family has been lost.

Sux in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject enriching the family.
There will be great good fortune.

‘The family is enriched, and there is great good fortune: — this
is due to the docility (belonging to the subject of the line), and its
being in its correct place.

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows the influence of the king ex-
tending to his family. There need be no anxiety; there will be good
fortune. -

‘The influence of the king extends to his family: —the inter-
course between them is that of mutual love.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject possessed of
sincerity and arrayed in majesty. In the end there will be good
fortune.
CHIA JEN 197

‘The good fortune connected with the display of majesty’ de-
scribes (the result of) the recovery of the true character.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Chia Jen, the name of the hexagram, simply means ‘a household,’ or ‘the
members of a family.” The subject of the essay based on the figure, however,
is the regulation of the family, effected mainly by the co-operation of hus-
band and wife in their several spheres, and only needing to become uni-
versal to secure the good order of the kingdom. The important place occu-
pied by the wife in the family is seen in the short sentence of the [Judgment].
That she be firm and correct, and do her part well, is the first thing neces-
sary to its regulation.

Line 1 is strong, and in a strong place. It suggests the necessity of strict
rule in governing the family. Regulations must be established, and their
observance strictly insisted on.

Line 2 is weak, and in the proper place for it, — the centre, moreover, of
the lower trigram. It fitly represents the wife, and what is said on it tells
us of her special sphere and duty; and that she should be unassuming in
regard to all beyond her sphere; always being firm and correct. See the
Shih, III, 350.

Line 3 is strong, and in an odd place. If the place were central, the
strength would be tempered; but the subject of the line, in the topmost
place of the trigram, may be expected to exceed in severity. But severity is
not a bad thing in regulating a family; —it is better than laxity and indul-
gence.

Line 4 is weak, and in its proper place. The wife is again suggested to
us, and we are told, that notwithstanding her being confined to the internal
affairs of the household, she can do much to enrich the family.

The subject of the strong fifth line appears as the king. This may be the
husband spoken of as also a king; or the real king whose merit is revealed
first in his family, as often in the Shih, where King Wen is the theme. The
central place here tempers the display of the strength and power.

Line 6 is also strong, and being in an even place, the subject of it might
degenerate into stern severity, but he is supposed to be sincere, complete
in his personal character and self-culture, and hence his action will only
lead to good fortune.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1 first explains the statement of the T'uan, about the wife,
represented by line 2; and then proceeds to the husband, represented by
line 5. The two trigrams become representative of the family circle, and
the wide world without it. In the reference to heaven and earth it is not
supposed that they are really husband and wife; but in their relation and
positions they symbolise that social relation and the individuals in it.

Paragraph 2, more closely rendered, would be — ‘That in Chia Jen there
is an authoritative ruler is a way of naming father and mother.” Does the
writer mean to say that while the assertion of authority was indispensable
198 : CH1a JEN

in a family, that authority must have combined in it both force and gentle.
>
ness?

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The Symbolism here is certainly far-fetched. ‘As wind,’ it is said, ‘comes
first from fire, so does transforming influence emanate from the family.
But the subject of the hexagram is the regulation and not the influence of
the family. Then the application is good for the superior man’s cultivation
of himself; but this again is only connected indirectly with the regulation
of the family.

The sooner préventive measures are presented to the youthful mind the
better; but does not prohibition imply that a change in the good will has
taken place?

In [line] 2 ‘docility’ is suggested by the weak line. ‘The humility’ comes
out of Sun, the upper trigram, whose attribute is pliant flexibility.

Yi Yen (Yiian dynasty) ingeniously observes on [line] 4 that the riches
of a family are not to be sought in its wealth, but in the affection and har-
mony of its members. Where these prevail, the family is not likely to be
poor, and whatever it has will be well preserved.

The mention ‘of mutual love’ is unusual in Chinese writings, and must
be considered remarkable here. ‘The husband,’ says Ch'eng-tzu, ‘loves his
helpmate in the house; the wife loves him who is the pattern for the family.’
But however admirable the sentiment is, it comes from the mind of the
writer, and is not drawn from the Text.

[Line] 6. It is said on this, that the majesty is not designedly assumed or
put on; but the effect of the character remoulded and perfected. The words
of Mencius are aptly quoted in illustration of the lesson: — ‘If a man him-
self do not walk in the (right) path, it will not be walked in (even) by his
wife and children.
K'UEI 199

38
K'UEI
Disunion (Mutual Alienation)

il)

Component Trigrams

Above: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

K’uei indicates that, (notwithstanding the condition of things
which it denotes), in small matters there will (still) be good success.

COMMENTARY

In K'uei we have (the symbol of) Fire, which, when moved,
tends upwards, and that of a Marsh, whose waters, when moved,
tend downwards. We have (also the symbols of) two sisters living
together, but whose wills do not move in the same direction.

(We see how the inner trigram expressive of) harmonious satis-
faction is attached to (the outer expressive of) bright intelligence;
(we see) the weak line advanced and acting above, and how it occu-
pies the central place, and is responded to by the strong (line be-
low). These indications show that ‘in small matters there will
(still) be good fortune.’

Heaven and earth are separate and apart, but the work which
they do is the same. Male and female are separate and apart, but
with a common will they seek the same object. There is diversity
between the myriad classes of beings, but there is an analogy be-
tween their several operations. Great indeed are the phenomena
and the results of this condition of disunion and separation.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] fire above, and that for (the waters of) a marsh
below, form K'uei. The superior man, in accordance with this,
where there is a general agreement, yet admits diversity.
200 K’ug,

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows that (to its subject) occasion for
repentance will disappear. He has lost his horses, but let him not
seek for them;—they will return of themselves. Should he meet
with bad men, he will not err (in communicating with them).

‘He meets with bad men (and communicates with them):” — (he
does so), to avoid the evil of their condemnation.

© Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject happening to
meet with his lord in a bye-passage. There will be no error.

‘He happens to meet with his lord in a bye-passage:’—but he
has not deviated (for this meeting) from the (proper) course.

Six in the third place:

In the third line, divided, we see one whose carriage is dragged
back, while the oxen in it are pushed back, and he is himself sub-
jected to the shaving of his head and the cutting off of his nose.
There is no good beginning, but there will be a good end.

‘We see his carriage dragged back: —this is indicated by the
inappropriateness of the position (of the line).

“There is no (good) beginning, but there will be a (good) end: —
this arises from his meeting with the strong (subject of the topmost
line).

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows i its subject solitary amidst the
(prevailing) disunion. (But) he meets with the good man (repre-
sented by the first line), and they blend their sincere desires to-
gether. The position is one of peril, but there will be no mistake.

“They blend their sincere desires together, and there will be no
error: — their (common) aim is carried into effect.

© Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows that (to its subject) occasion for
repentance will disappear. With his relative (and minister he
unites closely and readily) as if he were biting through a piece of
skin. When he goes forward (with this help), what error can there
be?

‘With his hereditary minister (he unites closely and easily) as if
he were biting through a piece of skin:’—his going forward will
afford ground for congratulation.
K'UEI ; 201

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject solitary amidst
the (prevailing) disunion. (In the subject of the third line, he seems
to) see a pig bearing on its back a load of mud, (or fancies) there is
a carriage full of ghosts. He first bends his bow against him, and
afterwards unbends it, (for he discovers) that he is not an assailant
to injure, but a near relative. Going forward, he shall meet with
(genial) rain, and there will be good fortune.

‘The good fortune symbolised by meeting with (genial) rain’
springs from the passing away of all doubts.

LEGGE’S NOTES

K’uei denotes a social state in which division and mutual alienation pre-
vail, and the hexagram teaches how in small matters this condition may be
healed, and the way prepared for the cure of the whole system. The writer
or writers of [the Commentary and the Great and Lesser Symbolism] point
out the indication in the figure of division and disunion according to their
views. In [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV] those
things appear as a necessary sequel to the regulation of the family; while
itis impossible to discover any allusion to the family in the Text.

Line 1 is strong, and in an odd place. A successful course might be
auspiced for its subject; but the correlate in line 4 is also strong; and there-
fore disappointment and repentance are likely to ensue. In the condition,
however, indicated by K'uei, where people have a common virtue, they
will help one another. Through the good services of 4, the other will not
have to repent. His condition may be emblemed by a travellers loss of his
horses, which return to him of themselves.

Should he meet with bad men, however, let him not shrink from them.
Communication with them will be of benefit. His good may overcome their
evil, and at least it will help to silence their slanderous tongues.

Line 5 is weak, and its subject is the proper correlate of the strong 2.
They might meet openly; but for the separation and disunion that mark
the time. A casual, as it were a stolen, interview, as in a bye-lane or passage,
however will be useful, and may lead on to a better understanding.

Line 3 is weak, where it ought to be strong. Its correlate, however, in 6
is strong, and the relation between them might seem what it ought to be.
But the weak 3 is between the strong lines in 2 and 4; and in a time of dis-
union there ensue the checking and repulsion emblemed in the Text. At
the same time the subject of line 6 inflicts on that of 3 the punishments
which are mentioned. It is thus bad for 3 at first, but we are told that in
the end it will be well with him; and this will be due to the strength of the
sixth line. The conclusion grows out of a conviction in the mind of the
author that what is right and good is destined to triumph over what is
wrong and bad. Disorder shall in the long run give place to order, and dis-
union to union.

Line 4 has no proper correlate, and might seem to be solitary. But, as
202 K’'ug;

we saw on line 1, in this hexagram, correlates of the same class help each
other. Hence the subjects of 4 and 1, meeting together, work with good
will and success.

The place of § is odd, but the line itself is weak, so that there might arise
occasion for repentance. But the strong 2 is a proper correlate to the weak
5. Five being the sovereign’s place, the subject of 2 is styled the sovereigns
relative, of the same surname with him, and head of some branch of the
descendants of the royal house. It is as easy for 5, so supported, to deal
with the disunion of the time, as to bite through a piece of skin.

Line 6 is an even place, and yet the line is strong; — what can its subject
effect? He looks at 3, which, as weak, is a proper correlate; but he looks
with the evil eye of disunion. The subject of 3 appears no better than a
filthy pig, nor more real than an impossible carriage-load of ghosts. He
bends his bow against him, but he unbends it, discovering a friend in 3,
as 1 did in 4, and 5 in 2. He acts and with good luck, comparable to the
falling rain, which results from the happy union of the yang and yin in
nature.

On the Commentary

In paragraph 1 we have first an explanation of the meaning of K'uei
from the symbolism of Fu-hsi. Then follows an explanation from that as-
cribed to King Wen, where Tui represents the youngest daughter and Li
the second. The K'ang-hsi editors observe that in many hexagrams we
have two daughters dwelling together, but that only in this and 49 is at-
tention called to it. The reason, they say, is that in those two diagrams the
sisters are the second and third daughters, while in the others one of them
is the eldest, whose place and superiority are fixed, so that between her
and either of the others there can be no division or collision.

About what is said, in paragraph 2, on the weak line, as advanced and
acting above, see the note on hexagram 35.

The lesson of paragraph 3 is not unity in diversity, but union with diver-
sity.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines
The application here of the Symbolism is correct, but neither of them

comes up to the idea of disunion which is in K'uei.

The various paragraphs seem to need no illustration beyond what may
be found in the notes on the Text.
CHIEN 203

1
—__— CHIEN
Arresting Movement

— —

— —

Component Trigrams

 

Above: Kan —water, a pit, danger

— — Below: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

In (the state indicated by) Chien advantage will be found in the
south-west, and the contrary in the north-east. It will be advan-
tageous (also) to meet with the great man. (In these circumstances),
with firmness and correctness, there will be good fortune.

COMMENTARY

Chien denotes difficulty. There is (the trigram expressive of)
perilousness in front. When one, seeing the peril, can arrest his
steps (in accordance with the significance of the lower trigram),
is he not wise?

(The language of) Chien, that ‘advantage will be found in the
south-west,” refers to the (strong fifth line) advanced and in the
central place. That ‘there will be no advantage in the north-east,
intimates that the way (of dealing with the Chien state) is ex-
hausted. That ‘it will be advantageous to see the great man,’ in-
timates that advance will lead to achievement. That the places (of
the different lines after the first) are those appropriate to them
indicates firm correctness and good fortune, with which the regions
(of the kingdom) are brought to their normal state. Great indeed is
the work to be done in the time of Chien!
204 CHigy

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain, and above it that for water, form
Chien. The superior man, in accordance with this, turns round |
(and examines) himself, and cultivates his virtue.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

From the first line, divided, we learn that advance (on the part
of its subject) will lead to (greater) difficulties, while remaining
stationary will afford ground for praise.

‘Advancing will conduct to (greater) difficulties, while remain-
ing stationary will afford ground for praise:’ — the proper course is
to wait.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows the minister of the king strug-
gling with difficulty on difficulty, and not with a view to his own
advantage.

“The minister of the king struggles with difficulty and difficulty:’
—in the end no blame will be attached to him.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject advancing, (but
only) to (greater) difficulties. He remains stationary, and returns
(to his former associates).

‘He advances, (but only) to (greater) difficulty; he remains sta-
tionary, and returns to his former associates:’ — they, (represented
in) the inner (trigram), rejoice in him.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject advancing, (but only)
to (greater) difficulties. He remains stationary, and unites (with
the subject of the line above).

“T'o advance will (only be to) encounter (greater) difficulties; he
remains stationary, and unites (with the subject of the line above)’
—that is in its proper place and has the solidity (due to it in that
position).

O Nine in the fifth place:
The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject struggling with the
greatest difficulties, while friends are coming to help him.
‘He struggles with the greatest difficulties, while friends are
coming (to help him): — he is in the central position, and possesses
the requisite virtue.
CHIEN 205

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject going forward,
(only to increase) the difficulties, while his remaining stationary
will be (productive of) great (merit). There will be good fortune,
and it will be advantageous to meet with the great man.

‘To advance will (only) increase the difficulties, while his re-
maining stationary will (be productive of) great (merit):’ —his aim
is to assist the (subject of the line) inside of him.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chien is the symbol for incompetency in the feet and legs, involving
difficulty in walking; hence it is used in this hexagram to indicate a state
of the kingdom which makes the government of it an arduous task. How
this task may be successfully performed, now by activity on the part of the
ruler, and now by a discreet inactivity: — this is what the figure teaches, or
at least gives hints about. For the development of the meaning of the sym-
bolic character from the structure of the lineal figure, see {the Commentary
and Great Symbolism].

The [Judgment] seems to require three things —attention to place, the
presence of the great man, and the firm observance of correctness —in
order to cope successfully with the difficulties of the situation. The first
thing is enigmatically expressed, and the language should be compared with
what we find in the [Judgment] of hexagrams 2 and 40. Referring to Figure
2, in Plate III, we find that, according to Wen’s arrangement of the tri-
grams, the south-west is occupied by Ch’ien, and the north-east by Ken.
The former represents the champaign country; the latter, the mountainous.
region. The former is easily traversed and held; the latter, with difficulty.
The attention to place thus becomes transformed into a calculation of
circumstances; those that promise success in an enterprise, which should
be taken advantage of, and those that threaten difficulty and failure, which
should be shunned.

This is the generally accepted view of this difficult passage. The K'ang-
hsi editors have a view of their own. I have been myself inclined to find
less symbolism in it, and to take the south-west as the regions in the south
and west of the kingdom, which we know from the Shih were more espe-
cially devoted to Wen and his house, while the strength of the kings of
Shang lay in the north and east.

‘The idea of “the great man,” Mencius’ “minister of Heaven,” is illus-
trated by the strong line in the fifth place, having for its correlate the weak
line in 2. But favourableness of circumstances and place, and the presence
of the great man do not dispense from the observance of firm correctness.
Throughout these essays of the / this is always insisted on.

Line 1 is weak, whereas it ought to be strong as being in an odd place. If
its subject advance, he will not be able to cope with the difficulties of the
206 CHIEN

situation, but be overwhelmed by them. Let him wait for a more favourable
time.

Line 2 is weak, but in its proper place. Its correlation with the strong s,
and consequent significance, are well set forth.

Line 3 is strong, and in a place of strength; but its correlate in 6 is weak,
so that the advance of its subject would be unsupported. He waits there-
fore for a better time, and cherishes the subjects of the two lines below,
who naturally cling to him.

Line 4 is weak, and, though in its proper place, its'subject could do little
of himself. He is immediately below the king or great man, however, and
cultivates his loyal attachment to him, waiting for the time when he shall
be required to act.

Line 5 is the king, the man great and strong. He can cope with the diffi-
culties, and the subjects of 2 and the other lines of the lower trigram give
their help.

The action of the hexagram is over; where can the weak 6 go forward to?
Let him abide where he is, and serve the great man immediately below
him. So shall he also be great; —in meritorious action at least.

On the Commentary

The upper or front trigram is K'an, the attribute of which is perilous-
ness; the lower is Ken, of which the arresting, actively or passively, of
movement or advance is the attribute. We can understand how the union
of these attributes gives the ideas of difficulty and prudent caution.

The explanations in paragraph 2 of the phraseology of the [Judgment]
are not all easily followed. It is said that the advantageousness of the south-
west is due to the central line in 5; but if we are to look for the meaning of
south-west in K'un, as in the diagram of King Wen’s trigrams, there is no
strong central line in it. May K’an, as a yang trigram, be used for K'un?

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The Symbolism is described here a little differently from the form of it
in [the Commentary]. Ch’eng-tzu brings the same meaning out of it, how-
ever, in the following way: — ‘We have here a steep and difficult mountain,
and again. on the top of that there is water; each of the two trigrams is an
emblem of perilousness. There is peril, both above and below, in the figure;
and hence it represents the difficulties of the state.’ The application of the
symbolism is illustrated by the words of Mencius, ‘When we do not, by
what we do, realise (what we desire), we must turn inwards and examine
ourselves in every point.’

From the lesson in [line] 2 we saw that the moral value of conduct
is independent of failure or success. It is said, ‘Though the difficulties be
too great for him to overcome, the sage accepts his desire, in order to
stimulate others to loyal devotedness.’

On [line] 3, K'ung Ying-ta says:—‘Of the three lines of the lower
trigram only the third is yang, above the two others which are of the yin
nature. They cling to it, and are represented as if rejoicing in it.
CHIEN 207

The view given of [line] 4 is that of the K’ang-hsi editors.

‘The friends’ in {line] 5 are the subjects of the second line, the cor-
relate of 5, and also of the two other lines of the lower trigram.

Su Shih (a.p. 1036-1101) remarks on [line] 6 that by ‘the inside,” and
‘the noble,” we are to understand the subject of line 5.
208 CHiey
— "40
—— CHIEH

fit

—— Removing Obstacles

Component Trigrams

Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

. Below: K’an — water, a pit, danger
p g!

UDGMENT

In (the state indicated by) Chieh advantage will be found in the
south-west. If no (further) operations be called for, there will be
good fortune in coming back (to the old conditions). If some opera-
tions be called for, there will be good fortune in the early con-
ducting of them.

—

COMMENTARY

In Chieh we have (the trigram expressive of) peril going on to
that expressive of movement. By movement there is an escape from
the peril: — (this is the meaning of) Chieh.

‘In (the state indicated by) Chieh, advantage will be found in the
south-west:’ — the movement (thus) intimated will win all. That
‘there will be good fortune in coming back (to the old conditions)’
shows that such action is that of the due medium. That ‘if some
operations be necessary, there will be good fortune in the early
conducting of them’ shows that such operations will be successful.

When heaven and earth are freed (from the grasp of winter), we
have thunder and rain. When these come, the buds of the plants
and trees that produce the various fruits begin to burst. Great
indeed are the phenomena in the time intimated by Chieh.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] thunder and that for rain, with these phenomena
in a state of manifestation, form Chieh. The superior man, in ac-
cordance with this, forgives errors, and deals gently with crimes.
CHIEH 209

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows that its subject will commit no
€ITOr.

The strong (fourth) line and the weak line here are in correla-
tion: — we judge rightly in saying that ‘its subject will commit no
error.’

O Nine in the second place:

The second line, undividd, shows its subject catch, in hunting,
three foxes, and obtain the yellow (= golden) arrows. With firm
correctness there will be good fortune.

‘The good fortune springing from the firm correctness of the
second line, undivided,’ is due to its subject holding the due mean.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows a porter with his burden, (yet)
riding in a carriage. He will (only) tempt robbers to attack him.
However firm and correct he may (try to) be, there will be cause
for regret.

For ‘a porter with his burden to be riding in a carriage’ is a thing
to be ashamed of. ‘It is he himself that tempts the robbers to come:’
—on whom besides can we lay the blame? (See Appendix I11, 1,48.)

Nine in the fourth place:

(To the subject of) the fourth line, undivided, (it is said), ‘Re-
move your toes. Friends will (then) come, between you and whom
there will be mutual confidence.’

‘Remove your toes: —the places (of this line and of the third and
first) are all inappropriate to them.

O Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows (its subject), the superior man
(= the ruler), executing his function of removing (whatever is in-
jurious to the idea of the hexagram), in which case there will be
good fortune, and confidence in him will be shown even by the
small men.

When ‘the superior man executes his function of removing
(whatever is injurious to the idea of the hexagram), small men will
of themselves retire.

Six at the top:

In the sixth line, divided, we see a feudal prince (with his bow)
shooting at a falcon on the top of a high wall, and hitting it. (The
effect of his action) will be in every way advantageous.
210 CHiEy

‘A prince with his bow shoots a falcon:’— thus he removes (the
promoters of) rebellion.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chieh is the symbol of loosing, —untying a knot or unravelling a com-
plication; and as the name of this hexagram, it denotes a condition in which
the obstruction and difficulty indicated by the preceding Chien have been
removed. The object of the author is to show, as if from the lines of the
figure, how this new and better state of the kingdom is to be dealt with. See
what is said on the [Judgment] of Chien for ‘the advantage to be found in
the south-west.’ If further active operations be not necessary to complete
the subjugation of the country, the sooner things fall into their old channels
the better. The new masters of the kingdom should not be anxious to
change all the old manners and ways. Let them do, as the duke of Chou
actually did do with the subjugated people of Shang. If further operations
be necessary, let them be carried through without delay. Nothing is said
in the [Judgment] about the discountenancing and removal of small men, —
unworthy ministers or officers; but that subject appears in more than one
of the lines.

There is a weak line, instead of a strong, in the first place; but this is
compensated for by its strong correlate in 4.

Chu Hsi says he does not understand the symbolism under line 2. The
place is even, but the line itself is strong; the strength therefore is modified
or tempered. And 2 is the correlate of the ruler in 5. We are to look to its
subject therefore for a minister striving to realise the idea of the hexa-
gram, and pacify the subdued kingdom. He becomes a hunter, and dis-
poses of unworthy men, represented by ‘the three foxes.” He also gets the
yellow arrows, —the instruments used in war or in hunting, whose colour
is correct,” and whose form is ‘straight.’ His firm correctness will be good.

Line 3 is weak, when it should be strong; and occupying, as it does, the
topmost place of the lower trigram, it suggests the symbolism of a porter
in a carriage. People will say, ‘How did he get there? The things cannot be
his own.” And robbers will attack and plunder him. The subject of the
line cannot protect himself, nor accomplish anything good.

What is said on the fourth line appears in the form of an address to its
subject. The line is strong in an even place, and 1, its correlate, is weak in
an odd place. Such a union will not be productive of good. In the symbolism
1 becomes the toe of the subject of 4. How the friend or friends, who are
to come to him on the removal of this toe, are represented, I do not perceive.

Line 5 is weak in an odd place; but the place is that of the ruler, to whom
it belongs to perfect the idea of the hexagram by removing all that is con-
trary to the peace and good order of the kingdom. It will be his duty to re-
move especially all the small men represented by the divided lines, which
he can do with the help of his strong correlate in 2. Then even the small
men will change their ways, and repair to him.

Line 6 is the highest line in the figure, but not the place of the ruler.
Hence it appears as occupied by a feudal duke, who carries out the idea of
the figure against small men, according to the symbolism employed.
211 CHIEH

On the Commentary

1. The meaning of the hexagram is brought out sufficiently well in para-
graph 1 by means of the attributes of the constituent trigrams.

2. How it is that the movement indicated in the first condition will
‘win’ all does not immediately appear. The K’ang-hsi editors say that
‘moving to the south and west’ is the same as ‘returning back to the old
conditions,’ and that ‘winning all’ and acting ‘according to the due medium’
are descriptive of the effect and method without reference to the sym-
bolism. Another explanation might be devised; but I prefer to leave the
matter in doubt.

3. Paragraph 3 shows the analogy of what takes place in nature to the
beneficent social and political changes described in the text, as is done
very frequently in {the Commentary).

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

It is a common saying that thunder and rain clear the atmosphere, and
a feeling of oppression is relieved. The last paragraph of [the Commen-
tary}, however, leads us to understand the Symbolism of the phenomena
of spring. The application seems to refer to the gentle policy of a con-
queror forward to forgive the opposition of those who offer no more re-
sistance.

The subject of line 2 is a minister or officer; and the K’ang-hsi editors
say that while straightforwardness, symbolised by the arrow, is the first
duty of an officer, if he do not temper that quality by pursuing the due
medium, which is symbolised by the yellow colour of the arrow, but pro-
ceed by main force, and that only, to remove what is evil, he will provoke
indignation and rebellion. The ‘three foxes’ are not alluded to in this
second [line].

On [line] 4 the same editors say: —‘The subject of this line is not
in the central nor in an odd place; he has for his correlate the subject of
line 1 and for his close associate that of line 3, both of which lines are weak
in strong places. Hence it is said, that they are all in places inappropriate
to them.’

What [line] 5 says, that ‘the small men retire, means that believing
in the sincerity of the ruler’s determination to remove all evil men, they
retire of themselves, or strive to conform to his wishes.
Jos

——-
— — SUN

Decrease
Component Trigrams

— — Above: Ken —mountain, arresting progress

— Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

In (what is denoted by) Sun, if there be sincerity (in him who
employs it), there will be great good fortune: — freedom from error;
firmness and correctness that can be maintained; and advantage
in every movement that shall be made. In what shall this (sincerity
in the exercise of Sun) be employed? (Even) in sacrifice two baskets
of grain, (though there be nothing else), may be presented.

COMMENTARY

In Sun (we see) the lower (trigram) diminished, and the upper
added to. (But) the method (of action) implied in this operates also
above (or, mounts upwards (also) and operates).

‘If there be sincerity in this method of diminution, there will
be great good fortune; freedom from error; firmness and correct-
ness that can be maintained; and advantage in every movement
that shall be made. In what shall this (sincerity in the exercise of
Sun) be employed? (Even) in sacrifice, two baskets of grain,
(though there be nothing else), may be presented:’ — for these two
baskets there ought to be the fitting time. There is a time when
the strong should be diminished, and the weak should be strength-
ened. Diminution and increase, overflowing and emptiness: — these
take place in harmony with the conditions of the time.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM
[The symbol of] a mountain and beneath it that for the waters
SUN 213

of a marsh form Sun. The superior man, in accordance with this,
restrains his wrath and represses his desires.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject suspending his own
affairs, and hurrying away (to help the subject of the fourth line).
He will commit no error, but let him consider how far he should
contribute of what is his (for the other).

‘He suspends his own affairs and hurries away (to help the sub-
ject of the fourth line):’ —the (subject of that) upper (line) mingles
his wishes with his.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows that it will be advantageous
for its subject to maintain a firm correctness, and that action on
his part will be evil. He can give increase (to his correlate) without
taking from himself.

‘It will be advantageous for (the subject of) the second line, un-
divided, to maintain his firm correctness:’—his central position
gives its character to his aim.

OSix in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows how of three men walking to-
gether, the number is diminished by one; and how one, walking,
finds his friend.

‘One man, walking,’ (finds his friend): — when three are together,
doubts rise among them.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject diminishing the ail-
ment under which he labours by making (the subject of the first
line) hasten (to his help), and make him glad. There willbe no error.

‘He diminishes the ailment under which he labours:” —this is
matter for joy.

OSix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows parties adding to (the stores of) its
subject ten pairs of tortoise shells, and accepting no refusal. There
will be great good fortune.

“The great good fortune attached to the fifth line, divided,’ is due
to the blessing from above.

© Nine at the top:
The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject giving increase
to others without taking from himself. There will be no error.
214 Sun

With firm correctness there will be good fortune. There will be
advantage in every movement that shall be made. He will find
ministers more than can be counted by their clans.

‘He gives increase to others without taking from what is his
own:’—he obtains his wish on a grand scale.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The interpretation of this hexagram is encompassed with great difficul-
ties. Sun is the symbol for the idea of diminishing or diminution; and what
is said in [the Commentary] has made it to be accepted as teaching the
duty of the subject to take of what is his and contribute to his ruler, or the
expenses of the government under which he lives; in other words, readily
and cheerfully to pay his taxes. P. Regis says, ‘Sun seu (vectigalis causa)
minuere . .. . est valde utile;’ and Canon McClatchie in translating [the
Commentary] has:—‘Diminishing (by taxation for instance) . . . . is very
lucky.’ Possibly, King Wen may have seen in the figures the subject of
taxation; but the symbolism of his son takes a much wider range. My own
reading of the figure and Text comes near to the view of Ch’eng-tzu, that
‘every diminution and repression of what we have in excess to bring it into
accordance with right and reason is comprehended under Sun,’

Let there be sincerity in doing this, and it will lead to the happiest re-
sults, It will lead to great success in great things; and if the correction, or
it may be a contribution towards it, appear to be very small, yet it will be
accepted;—as in the most solemn religious service. This is substantially
the view of the hexagram approved by the K’ang-hsi editors.

Line 1 is strong, and its correlate in 4 is weak. Its subject will wish to
help the subject of 4; but will not leave anything of his own undone in doing
so. Nor will he diminish of his own for the other without due deliberation.

Line 2 is strong, and in the central place. But it is in the place of a weak
line, and its subject should maintain his position without moving to help
his correlate in 5. Maintaining his own firm correctness is the best way to
help him.

Paragraph 3 is to my mind full of obscurity. Chu Hsi, adopting the view
in {the Commentary], says that the lower trigram was originally Ch’ien,
three undivided lines, like ‘three men walking together,’ and that the third
line, taken away and made to be the topmost line, or the third, in what was
originally Kun, three divided lines, was ‘the putting away of one man;’
and that then the change of place by 3 and 6, while they continued their
proper correlation, was, one going away, and finding his friend. I cannot
lay hold of any thread of reason in this.

Line 4 is weak, and in an even place; like an individual ailing and unable
to perform his proper work. But the correlate in | is strong; and is made to
hasten to its relief. The ‘joy’ of the line shows the desire of its subject to
do his part in the work of the hexagram.

Line 5 is the seat of the ruler, who is here humble, and welcomes the
assistance of his correlate, the subject of 2. He is a ruler whom all his sub-
jects of ability will rejoice to serve in every possible way; and the result
will be great good fortune.
SUN 215

Line 6 has been changed from a weak into a strong line from line 3; has
received therefore the greatest increase, and will carry out the idea of the
hexagram in the highest degree and style. But he can give increase to others
without diminishing his own resources, and of course the benefit he will
confer will be incalculable. Ministers will come to serve him; and not one
from each clan merely, but many. Such is the substance of what is said on
this last paragraph. I confess that I only discern the meaning darkly.

On the Commentary

1. All that we see is two undivided lines in the lower trigram, and then a
divided one, and exactly the opposite in the upper. But the whole figure
could not but have this form from the process of its formation, whether by
the gradual addition of the two primitive lines, or by the imposition of the
whole trigrams on one another. To say that the upper lines of Ch’ien and
K’un changed places to express the idea of subjects contributing in taxes
to the maintenance of their ruler is absurd; and if that thought were in the
mind of King Wen (which I very much doubt), it would only show how
he projected his own idea, formed independently of the figure, into its lines.

On the second sentence, the K’ang-hsi editors say:—‘When a minister
devotes his life in the service of his lord, or the people undertake their
various labours in behalf of their government, these are instances of the
ministering of those below to increase those above. But in this way the
intercourse of the two becomes close and -their aims become the same;—
does not the method of action of those below communicate itself to those
above?’

In paragraph 2 the subject of contribution, such as the payment of taxes,
passes into the background. The K’ang-hsi editors say: —‘What is meant
by diminishing in this hexagram is the regulation of expenditure or con-
tribution according to the time. This would vary in a family according to
its poverty or wealth; and in a state according to the abundance or scanti-
ness of its resources. When it is said that there must be sincerity along with
a diminution, it means that though such a diminution cannot be helped, yet
what is given should be given sincerely. A small sacrifice sincerely offered
is accepted. In the language, “There is a time when the strong should be
diminished and the weak be strengthened,” we are not to find the two
baskets in the diminution of the strong. “The strong” is what is essential, —
in this case sincerity; “The weak” is what is unimportant, — the amount and
manner of the offering. If one supplement the insufficiency of his offering
with the abundance of his sincerity, the insignificance of his two baskets
will not be despised.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

‘The waters of a marsh are continually rising up in vapour to bedew the
hill above it, and thus increase its verdure; what is taken from the marsh
gives increase to the hill.’ This is very far-fetched. In the application again
the superior man acts only on himself, and for himself;— which has noth-
ing to do with those of low degree giving to those above them. This appli-
cation, however, agrees with what, as we have seen on the Text, was Ch’eng-
tzu’s view of the meaning of the hexagram.
216 Sun

The explanation appended to [line] 1 seems to be to account for the sub-
ject of line 1 hurrying away to the help of line 4.

‘His aim’ is to abide where he is, and help the subject of 5 by the exhibi-
tion of ‘firm correctness.’

The K’ang-hsi editors observe that [line] 3 is true indeed of three men;
and not of three men only, but of many repetitions of thought or action.

The same editors say on [line] 5 that ‘the blessing from above is ex-
plained, by many, of the oracles obtained through divining with the
tortoise-shell; but that looking at the text on line 2 of the next hexagram,
and that Ti (spoken of there) is the lord of all spirits, the term “above” here
is most naturally explained of Heaven's mind, whose acceptance cannot be
gainsaid by men or spirits.’

Ch’eng-tzu says on [line] 6, though I do not see the relevancy of his re-
marks: — ‘Dwelling on high, and taking nothing from those below him, but
on the contrary giving more to them, the superior man accomplishes his
aim on a grand scale. The aim of the superior man is simply to be increas-
ing what others have; —that and nothing else.’
#
32

— 42
—

Increase

— —

 

Component Trigrams
———— Above: Sun -—wind, gentle, wood, penetration

— ~— Below: Chen— thunder, movement, perilousness

 

JUDGMENT

I indicates that (in the state which it denotes) there will be ad-
vantage in every movement which shall be undertaken, that it will
be advantageous (even) to cross the great stream.

COMMENTARY

In I we see the upper (trigram) diminished, and the lower added
to. The satisfaction of the people (in consequence of this) is with-
out limit. What descends from above reaches to all below, so great
and brilliant is the course (of its operation).

That ‘there will be advantage in every movement which shall be
undertaken’ appears from the central and correct (positions of the
second and fifth lines), and the (general) blessing (the dispensing of
which they imply).

That ‘it will be advantageous (even) to cross the great stream’
appears from the action of wood (shown in the figure).

I is made up of (the trigrams expressive of) movement and
docility, (through which) there is daily advancement to an un-
limited extent. We have (also) in it heaven dispensing and earth
producing, leading to an increase without restriction of place.
Everything in the method of this increase proceeds according to
the requirements of the time.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] wind and that for thunder form I. The superior
man, in accordance with this, when he sees what is good, moves
towards it; and when he sees his errors, he turns from them.
218 I

THE LINES

® Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows that it will be advantageous for
its subject in his position to make a great movement. If it be greatly
fortunate, no blame will be imputed to him.

‘If the movement be greatly fortunate, no blame will be imputed
to him:’— though it is not for one in so low a position to have to
do with great affairs.

oSix in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows parties adding to the stores of
its subject ten pairs of tortoise shells whose oracles cannot be op-
posed. Let him persevere in being firm and correct, and there will
be good. fortune. Let the king, (having the virtues thus distin-
guished), employ them in presenting his offerings to God, and
there will be good fortune.

‘Parties add to his stores’ —they come from beyond (his im-
mediate circle) to do so.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows increase given to its subject by
means of what is evil, so that he shall (be led to good), and be with-
out blame. Let him be sincere and pursue the path of the Mean,
(so shall he secure the recognition of the ruler, like) an officer who
announces himself to his prince by the symbol of his rank.

‘Increase is given by means of what is evil and difficult’ —as he
has in himself (the qualities called forth).

® Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject pursuing the due
course. His advice to his prince is followed. He can with advantage
be relied on in such a movement as that of removing the capital.

‘His advice to his prince is followed:’—his (only) object in it
being the increase (of the general good).

ONine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject with sincere heart
seeking to benefit (all below). There need be no question about it;
the result will be great good fortune. (All below) will with sincere
heart acknowledge his goodness.

‘(The ruler) with sincere heart seeks to benefit (all below):’ —
there need be no question (about the result). ‘(All below) with sin-

cere heart acknowledge (his goodness)’ — he gets what he desires
on a great scale.
I 219

Nine at the top:

In the sixth line, undivided, we see one to whose increase none
will contribute, while many will seek to assail him. He observes
no regular rule in the ordering of his heart. There will be evil.

“To his increase none will contribute: — this expresses but half
the result. ‘Many will seek to assail him: —they will come from
beyond (his immediate circle) to do so.

LEGGE’S NOTES

I has the opposite meaning to Sun, and is the symbol of addition or in-
creasing. What King Wen had in his mind, in connexion with the hexagram,
was a ruler or a government operating so as to dispense benefits to, and in-
crease the resources of all the people. Two indications are evident in the
lines; —the strong line in the ruler’s seat, or the fifth line, and the weak line
in the correlative place of 2. Whether there be other indications in the figure
or its component trigrams will be considered in dealing with the [Com-
mentary and Great Symbolism]. The writer might well say, on general
grounds, of the ruler whom he had in mind, that he would be successful
in his enterprises and overcome the greatest difficulties.

Line 1 is strong, but its low position might seem to debar its subject
from any great enterprise. Favoured as he is, however, according to the
general idea of the hexagram, and specially responding to the proper cor-
relate in 4, it is natural that he should make a movement; and great suc-
cess will make his rashness be forgotten.

With paragraph 2 compare paragraph 5 of the preceding hexagram. Line
2 is weak, but in the centre, and is the correlate of 5. Friends give its sub-
ject the valuable gifts mentioned; ‘that is,” says Kuo Yung (Sung dynasty),
‘men benefit him; the oracles of the divination are in his favour, — spirits,
that is, benefit him; and finally, when the king sacrifices to God, He ac-
cepts. Heaven confers benefit from above.

Line 3 is weak, neither central, nor in its correct position. It would seem
therefore that its subject should have no increase given to him. But it is
the time for giving increase, and the idea of his receiving it by means of
evil things is put into the line. That such things serve for reproof and cor-
rection is well known to Chinese moralists. But the paragraph goes on also
to caution and admonish.

Line 4 is the place for a minister, near to that of the ruler. Its subject is
weak, but his place is appropriate, and as he follows the due course, his
ruler will listen to him, and he will be a support in the most critical move-
ments. Changing the capital from place to place was frequent in the feudal
times of China. That of Shang, which preceded Chou, was changed five
times. :

Line § is strong, in its fitting position, and central. It is the seat of the
ruler, who has his proper correlate in 2. Everything good, according to the
conditions of the hexagrams, therefore, may be said of him;—as is done.

Line 6 is also strong; but it should be weak. Occupying the topmost
place of the. figure, its subject will concentrate his powers in the increase
220 I

of himself, and not think of benefiting those below him; and the conse-
quence will be as described.

On the Commentary

1. The process of the formation of the trigrams here is the reverse of that
in the preceding hexagram; and is open to the remarks I have made on that.
Of course the people are full of complacency and pleasure in the labours
of their ruler for their good.

2. The mention of ‘the action of wood’ has reference to the upper tri-
gram Sun, which is the symbol both of wind and wood. From wood boats
and ships are made, on which the great stream may be crossed. In three
hexagrams, this, 59, and 61, of which Sun is a part, we find mention made
of crossing the great stream. It is generally said that the lower trigram
Chen also symbolises wood; but that is obtained by a roundabout process.
Chen occupies the place of the east in Wen’s arrangement of the trigrams;
but the east symbolises spring, when the growth of vegetation begins; and
therefore Chen may symbolise wood! [As stated in Legge’s Introduction.)
the doctrine of ‘the five elements’ does not appear in the /. Ch’eng-tzu

takes wood KN mu), ‘as a misprint for increase Ge v0)”

3. The words ‘heaven dispensing and earth producing’ are based on the
fancied genesis of the figure from Ch'ien and Kun, the first lines in each
changing places. It was the author of [the Commentary], probably, who
first introduced that absurd notion in connexion with the formation of
Sun and 1.

One rhyme runs through and connects these three paragraphs thus: —

‘I spoils the high, gives to the low;

The people feel intense delight.

Down from above to all below,

The blessing goes, so large and bright.
Success will every movement mark,
Central its source, its course aright.

The great stream even may be crossed,
When planks of wood their strength unite.
I movement shows and docile feet,
Which progress day by day invite.
Heaven gives; productive earth responds;
Increase crowns every vale and height;
And ceaselessly it hastens on,

Each season’s gifts quick to requite.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The Symbolism here is different from what we gather from the {Com-
mentary]. Sun no longer symbolises wood, but, as it more commonly does,
wind. Thunder and wind, it is supposed, increase each the other; and their
combination gives the idea of increase. Then the application, good in itself,
must be treated very nicely, as it is by the K’ang-hsi editors, in order to
make out any connexion between it and the Symbolism.

[Line] 1. ‘One in a low position should not move in great affairs; —not 2
son, it is said, while his father is alive; nor a minister, while his ruler
I 221

overns; nor a member of an official department, while its head directs its
affairs. If such a one do initiate such an affair, only great success will ex-
cuse his rashness.

{Line] 2. Line 5 is the proper correlate of 2; and its subject will be among
the contributing parties. But others ‘beyond’ will be won to take part with
him.

{Line] 3. There is a soul of good even in men who seem only evil; and
adversity may quicken it.

[Line] 6. As in line 2 the attractive power of benevolence is shown, so in
line 6 we have the repulsive power of selfishness exhibited. Mark the ‘from
beyond’ in both paragraphs.
Ny

22 Kuar

N\

—— 43
KUAI
Removing Corruption (Break-through)

Component Trigrams

Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

Below: Ch’ien — heaven, the creative, male, active

 

JUDGMENT

Kuai requires (in him who would fulfil its meaning) the exhibi-
tion (of the culprit’s guilt) in the royal court, and a sincere and
earnest appeal (for sympathy and support), with a consciousness
of the peril (involved in cutting off the criminal). He should (also)
make announcement in his own city, and show. that it will not be
well to have recourse at once to arms. (In this way) there will be
advantage in whatever he shall go forward to.

COMMENTARY

Kuai is the symbol of displacing or removing. We see (in the
figure) the strong (lines) displacing the weak. (We have in it the
attributes of) strength and complacency. There is displacement,
but harmony (continues).

“The exhibition (of the criminal’s guilt) in the royal courtyard’
is suggested by the (one) weak (line) mounted on the five strong
lines.

There ‘is an earnest and sincere appeal (for sympathy and sup-
port), and a consciousness of the peril (involved in the undertak-
ing): — it is the realisation of this danger, which makes the method
(of compassing the object) brilliant.

‘He should make an announcement in his own city, and show
that it will not be well to have recourse at once to arms:’ —(if he
have recourse to arms), what he prefers will (soon) be exhausted.

“There will be advantage in whatever he shall go forward to:’—
when the growth of the strong (lines) has been completed, there
will be an end (of the displacement).
KuAl 223

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol off heaven and that for the waters of a marsh
mounting above it form Kuai. The superior man, in accordance
with this, bestows emolument on those below him, and dislikes
allowing his gifts to accumulate (undispensed).

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject in (the pride of)
strength advancing with his toes. He goes forward, but will not
succeed. There will be ground for blame.

‘Without (being able to) succeed, he goes forward:”— this is an
error.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject full of apprehen-
sion and appealing (for sympathy and help). Late at night hostile
measures may be (taken against him), but he need not be anxious
about them.

“Though hostile measures be taken against him, he need not be
anxious: — he pursues the course of the due mean.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject (about to advance)
with strong (and determined) looks. There will be evil. (But) the
superior man, bent on cutting off (the criminal), will walk alone
and encounter the rain, (till he be hated by his proper associates)
as if he were contaminated (by the others). (In the end) there will
be no blame against him.

“The superior man looks bent on cutting off the culprit: —there
will in the end be no error.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows one from whose buttocks the
skin has been stripped, and who walks slowly and with difficulty.
(If he could act) like a sheep led (after its companions), occasion
for repentance would disappear. But though he hear these words,
he will not believe them.

‘He walks slowly and with difficulty:’—he is not in the place
appropriate to him.

‘He hears these words, but does not believe them:’—he hears,
but does not understand.
224 Kuar

oO Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows (the small men like) a bed of
pursiain, which ought to be uprooted with the utmost determina-
tion. (The subject of the line having such determination), his action,
in harmony with his central position, will lead to no error or
blame.

‘If his action be in harmony with his central position, there will
be no error:’ —but his standing in the due mean is not yet clearly
displayed.

© Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows its subject without any (helpers)
on whom to call. His end will be evil.

‘There is the misery of having none on whom to call’ — the end
will be that he cannot continue any longer.

LEGGE’S NOTES

In Kuai we have the hexagram of the third month, when the last rem-
nant, cold and dark, of winter, represented by the sixth line, is about to
disappear before the advance of the warm and bright days of the approach-
ing summer. In the yin line at the top King Wen saw the symbol of a small
or bad man, a feudal prince or high minister, lending his power to maintain
a corrupt government, or, it might be, a dynasty that was waxen old and
ready to vanish away; and in the five undivided lines he saw the repre-
sentatives of good order, or, it might be, the dynasty which was to super-
sede the other. This then is the subject of the hexagram, —how bad men,
statesmen corrupt and yet powerful, are to be put out of the way. And he
who would accomplish the task must do so by the force of his character
more than by force of arms, and by producing a general sympathy on his
side.

The [Judgment] says that he must openly denounce the criminal in the
court, seek to awaken general sympathy, and at the same time go about his
enterprise, conscious of its difficulty and danger. Among his own adher-
ents, moreover, as if it were in his own city, he must make it understood
how unwillingly he takes up arms. Then let him go forward, and success
will attend him.

Line 1 is strong, the first line of that trigram, which expresses the idea
of strength. But it is in the lowest place. The stage of the enterprise is too
early, and the preparation too small to make victory certain. Its subject had
better not take the field.

Line 2 is strong, #nd central, and its subject is possessed with the deter-
mination to do his part in the work of removal. But his eagerness is tem-
pered by his occupancy of an even place; and he is cautious, and no at-
tempts, however artful, to harm him will take effect.

Line 3 is strong, and its subject displays his purpose too eagerly. Being
Kuat 225

peyond the central position, moreover, gives an indication of evil. Lines 3
and 6 are also proper correlates; and, as elsewhere in the /, the meeting of
yin and yang lines is associated with falling rain. The subject of 3, there-
fore, communicates with 6, in a way that annoys his associates; but never-
theless he commits no error, and, in the end, incurs no blame.

Line 4 is not in the centre, nor in an odd place, appropriate to it as un-
divided. Its subject therefore will not be at rest, nor able to do anything to
accomplish the idea of the hexagram. He is symbolised by a culprit, who,
according to the ancient and modern custom of Chinese courts, has been
bastinadoed till he presents the appearance in the Text. Alone he can do
nothing; if he could follow others, like a sheep led along, he might accom-
plish something, but he will not listen to advice.

Purslain grows in shady places, and hence we find it here in close con-
tiguity to the topmost line, which is yin. As 5 is the rulers seat, evil may
come to him from such contiguity, and strenuous efforts must be made to
prevent such an evil. The subject of the line, the ruler in the central place,
will commit no error. It must be allowed that the symbolism in this line is
not easily managed.

The subject of the 6th line, standing above, may be easily disposed of.

On the Commentary

1. The last clause of paragraph 1 is good in itself, showing that the strong
and worthy statesman in removing a bad man from the state is not actuated
by any private feelings. The sentiment, however, as it is expressed, can
hardly be said to follow from the symbolism.

Paragraph 2. The same may be said of all the notes appended to the
different clauses of this second paragraph. Hu Ping-wen (Yuan dynasty)
says: — ‘If but a single small man be left, he is sufficient to make the supe-
rior man anxious; if but a single inordinate desire be left in the mind, that
is sufficient to disturb the harmony of heavenly principles. The eradication
in both cases must be complete, before the labour is ended.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

We can only understand the mounting of the waters of a marsh up into
the sky of the phenomenon of evaporation; and certainly the waters so
formed into clouds will be condensed, and come down again as rain. This
may be taken as an image of dispersion, but not of displacement in the
sense of the Text of the hexagram.

The first clause of the application follows naturally enough from the
above interpretation of the Symbolism. Chu Hsi says he does not under-
stand the second clause. Many critics adopt the view of it which appears
in the translation.

[Line] 2 does not mention the precautionary measure taken in the Text
by the subject of the line, from which the conclusion would follow quite
as naturally as from his central position. The K’ang-hsi editors, however,
say that the not having recourse lightly to force is itself the due course.

Line 3 responding, and alone of all the strong lines responding to 6, may
appear at first irresolute, and not prepared for decided measures; but ‘in
the end’ its subject does what is required of him.
226 ; Kua

The contiguity of line 5 to the divided 6, is supposed to have some bad
effect on its subject, so that while he does what his central position re.
quires, it is not without an effort. ‘If a man, says Ch’eng-T2u, ‘cherish a
single illicit desire in his mind, he has left the right way. The admonition
here conveyed is deep.’
44

Encountering
Component Trigrams

Above: Ch’ien— heaven, the creative, male, active

Below: Sun — wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Kou shows a female who is bold and strong. It will not be good

Kou has the significance of unexpectedly coming on. (We see in
it) the weak (line) coming unexpectedly on the strong ones.

‘It will not be good to marry (such) a female:’ —one (so symbol-
ised) should not be long associated with.

Heaven and earth meeting together (as here represented), all
the variety of natural things become fully displayed.

When a strong (line) finds itself in the central and correct posi-
tion, (good government) will greatly prevail all under the sky.

Great indeed is the significance of what has to be done at the
time indicated by Kou!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol off wind and that for the sky above it form Kou.
The sovereign, in accordance with this, delivers his charges, and
promulgates his announcements throughout the four quarters (of
the kingdom).
228 Kou

THE LINES

Six in the first place: :

The first line, divided, shows how its subject should be kept
(like a carriage) tied and fastened to a metal drag, in which case
with firm correctness there will be good fortune. (But) if he move
in any direction, evil will appear. He will be (like) a lean pig, which
is sure to keep jumping about.

“Tied and fastened to a metal drag:’ —(this describes the arrest
of) the weak (line) in its advancing course.

© Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject with a wallet of
fish. There will be no error. But it will not be well to let (the sub-
ject of the first line) go forward to the guests.

‘He has a wallet of fish:’—it is right for him not to allow (the
subject of the first line) to get to the guests.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows one from whose buttocks the
skin has been stripped so that he walks with difficulty. The posi-
tion is perilous, but there will be no great error.

‘He walks with difficulty’ —but his steps have not yet been
drawn (into the course of the first line). .

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject with his wallet,
but no fish in it. This will give rise to evil.

“The evil’ indicated by there being ‘no fish in the wallet’ is
owing to (the subject of the line) keeping himself aloof from the
people.
© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, (shows its subject as) a medlar tree
overspreading the gourd (beneath it). If he keep his brilliant qual-
ities concealed, (a good issue) will descend (as) from Heaven.

“The subject of the fifth line, undivided, keeps his brilliant qual-
ities concealed:’ — as is indicated by his central and correct position.

{The good issue) descends (as) from Heaven: — his aim does not
neglect the ordinances (of Heaven).

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows its subject receiving others on
his horns. There will be occasion for regret, but there will be no
error.

‘He receives others on his horns: — he is exhausted at his great-
est height, and there will be cause for regret.
Kou 229

LEGGE’S NOTES

The single, divided, line at the top of Kuai, the hexagram of the third
month, has been displaced, and Ch’ien has ruled over the fourth month of
the year. But the innings of the divided line commence again; and here we
have in Kou the hexagram of the fifth month, when light and heat are sup-
posed both to begin to be less.

In that divided line Wen saw the symbol of the small or unworthy man,
beginning to insinuate himself into the government of the country. His
influence, if unchecked, would go on to grow, and he would displace one
good man after another, and fill the vacant seats with others like-minded
with himself. The object of Wen in his [Judgment], therefore, was to enjoin
resistance to the encroachment of this bad man.

Kou is defined as giving the idea of suddenly and casually encountering
or meeting with. So does the divided line appear all at once in the figure.
And this significance of the name rules in the interpretation of the lines,
so as to set on one side the more common interpretation of them according
to the correlation; showing how the meaning of the figures was put into
them from the minds of Wen and Tan in the first place. The sentiments of
the Text are not learned from them; but they are forced and twisted, often
fantastically, and made to appear to give those sentiments forth of them-
selves.

Here the first line, divided, where it ought to be the contrary, becomes
the symbol of a bold, bad woman, who appears unexpectedly on the scene,
and wishes to subdue or win all the five strong lines to herself. No one
would contract a marriage with such a female; and every good servant of
his country will try to repel the entrance into the government of every
officer who can be so symbolised.

Line 1 represents the bére noire of the figure. If its subject can be kept
back, the method of firm government and order will proceed. If he cannot
be restrained, he will become disgusting and dangerous. It is not enough
for the carriage to be stopt by the metal drag; it is also tied or bound
to some steadfast object. Internal and external restraints should be opposed
to the bad man.

The ‘wallet of fish’ under line 2 is supposed to symbolise the subject of
line 1. It has come into the possession of the subject of 2, by virtue of the
meaning of the name Kou, which I have pointed out. With his strength
therefore he can repress the advance of 1. He becomes in fact ‘the lord of
the hexagram,’ and all the other strong lines are merely guests; and espe-
cially is it important that he should prevent 1 from approaching them.
This is a common explanation of what is said under this second line. It
seems far-fetched; but I can neither find nor devise anything better.

With what is said on line 3, compare the fourth paragraph of the duke’s
Text [that is, the explanation of the fourth line] on the preceding hexagram.
Line 3 is strong, but has gone beyond the central place; has no correlate
above; and is cut off from 1 by the intervening 2. It cannot do much there-
fore against 1; but its aim being to repress that, there will be no great error.

Line 1 is the proper correlate of 4; but it has already met and associated
230 Koy

with 2. The subject of 4 therefore stands alone; and evil to him may be
looked for.

Line § is strong, and in the ruler’s place. Its relation to 1 is like that of a
forest tree to the spreading gourd. But let not its subject use force to de-
stroy or repress the growth of 1; but let him restrain himself and keep his
excellence concealed, and Heaven will set its seal to his virtue.

The symbolism of line 6 is difficult to understand, though the meaning
of what is said is pretty clear. The K’ang-hsi editors observe: — ‘The sub-
ject of this line is like an officer who has withdrawn from the world. He
can accomplish no service for the time; but his person is removed from the
workers of disorder.

On the Commentary

On paragraph 1 the K’ang-hsi editors say: —‘“The weak line meets
with (or comes unexpectedly on) the strong ones;” —the weak line, that
is, plays the principal part. The case is like that of the minister who as-
sumes the power of deciding for himself on all measures, or of a hen’s an-
nouncing the morning; —is not the name of (shameless) boldness rightly
applied to it? Hence nothing more is said about the symbol of the bold
female; but attention is called to the second part of the [Judgment].

Paragraph 2 needs no remark. Paragraphs 3, 4, and § all speak of the im-
portance of powers and parties meeting together, — in the world of nature,
and in the sphere of human affairs. But I do not see how this sentiment is
a natural sequel to that in I and 2, nor that it has any connexion with the
teaching of the [Judgment] and Symbolism.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Wind, blowing all-under the sky, penetrates everywhere, and pro-
duces its natural effect; and it is a good application of this phenomenon
that follows; but it has nothing to do with the meaning of Kou and the in-
terpretation of the hexagram, as taught in the Text. The K’ang-hsi editors
perceive this, and deal with the Symbolism after a method of their own,
on which it is unnecessary to enter.

[Line] I. My supplement, ‘This describes the arrest of, is a conclusion
from the whole of the Text on the line. All the commentaries have it.

In the ‘Daily Lecture’ it is said that the lesson of [line] 2 is that ‘the
subject of the line should make the repression of 1 his own exclusive work,
and not allow it to pass on to the subject of any of the other lines: That
view is rather different from the one indicated in my supplement.

‘His steps have not been drawn into the course of the first line:’ — we
have to supply, ‘and therefore there will be no great error.

[Line] 4. See what is said on the Text. But that the subject of the line
stands alone is owing, it is here implied, to his own impatience. If he could
exercise forbearance, he would find a proper opportunity to check the ad-
vance of the subject of line 1.

The subject of line 5, while mindful of his task in the hexagram, to
repress the advance symbolised by 1,—yet keeps his wise plans concealed
till the period of carrying them into execution, determined by the ordi-
Kou | 231

nances of Heaven, has arrived. Then comes the successful stroke of his
olicy as if it were directly from Heaven.

The subject of line 6 really accomplishes nothing to repress the adivence
of the unworthy; but he keeps himself from evil communication with them.
He is not to be charged with biameable error, though more and better
might have been expected of him.
I -

—— 45
—_— TS'UI

— = Gathering Together

Component Trigrams

~——— Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

—— = Below: K'un — the earth, female, passive, receptive

JUDGMENT

In (the state denoted by) Ts’ui, the king will repair to his ances-
tral temple. It will be advantageous (also) to meet with the great
man; and then there will be progress and success, though the ad-
vantage must come through firm correctness. The use of great
victims will conduce to good fortune; and in whatever direction
movement is made, it will be advantageous.

COMMENTARY

Tsui. indicates (the condition of union, or) being collected. We
have in it (the symbol of) docile obedience going on to (what is
expressed by that of) satisfaction. There is the strong line in the
central place, and rightly responded to. Hence comes the (idea of)
union. .

“The king will repair to his ancestral temple:’— with the utmost
filial piety he presents his offerings (to the spirits of his ancestors).

‘It will be advantageous to meet the great man, and there will
then be prosperity and success:’ —the union effected by him will
be on and through what is correct.

“The use of great victims will conduce to good fortune; and in
whatsoever direction movement is made, it will be advantageous?’
—all is done in accordance with the ordinances of Heaven.

When we look at the way in which the gatherings (here shown)
take place, the natural tendencies (in the outward action) of heaven
and earth and of all things can be seen.
Ts'ut 233

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] earth and that for the waters of a marsh raised
above it form Ts'ui. The superior man, in accordance with this,
has his weapons of war put in good repair, to be prepared against
unforeseen contingencies.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject with a sincere desire
(for union), but unable to carry it out, so that disorder is brought
into the sphere of his union. If he cry out (for help to his proper
correlate), all at once (his tears) will give place to smiles. He need
not mind (the temporary difficulty); as he goes forward, there will
be no error.

‘In consequence disorder is brought into the sphere of his un-
ion:"— his mind and aim are thrown into confusion.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject led forward (by his
correlate). There will be good fortune, and freedom from error.
There is entire sincerity, and in that case (even the small offerings
of) the vernal sacrifice are acceptable.

‘He is led forward; there will be good fortune; and freedom from
error: — (the virtue proper to) his central place has not undergone
any change.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject striving after union
and seeming to sigh, yet nowhere finding any advantage. If he go
forward, he will not err, though there may be some small cause
for regret.

‘If he go forward, he will not err:’ — in the subject of the topmost
line there is humility and condescension.

O Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject in such a state
that, if he be greatly fortunate, he will receive no blame.

‘If he be grandly fortunate, he will receive no blame:’ —(this
condition is necessary, because) his position is not the one proper
to him.

O Nine in the fifth place:
The fifth line, undivided, shows the union (of all) under its sub-
234 Ts’ur

ject in the place of dignity. There will be no error. If any do not
have confidence in him, let him see to it that (his virtue) be great,
long-continued, and firmly correct, and all occasion for repentance
will disappear.

“There is the union (of all) under him in the place of dignity:
— (but) his mind and aim have not yet been brilliantly displayed.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject sighing and weep-
ing; but there will be no error.

‘He sighs and weeps:’—he does not yet rest in his topmost
position.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Ts'ui denotes collecting together, or things so collected; and hence this
hexagram concerns the state of the kingdom when a happy union prevails
between the sovereign and his ministers, between high and low; and replies
in a vague way to the question how this state is to be preserved; by the in-
fluence of religion, and the great man, who is a sage upon the throne.

He, ‘the king,’ will repair to his ancestral temple, and meet in spirit there
with the spirits of his ancestors. Whatever he does, being correct and right,
will succeed. His religious services will be distinguished by their dignity
and splendour. His victims will be the best that can be obtained, and other
things will be in harmony with them.

Line 1 is weak, and in the place of a strong line. It has a proper correlate
in 4, but is separated from him by the intervention of two weak lines. The
consequence of these things is supposed to be expressed in the first part of
the symbolism; but the subject of the line is possessed by the desire for
union, which is the theme of the hexagram. Calling out to his correlate for
help, he obtains it, and his sorrow is turned into joy.

Line 2 is in its proper place, and responds to the strong ruler in 5, who
encourages and helps the advance of its subject. He possesses also the sin-
cerity, proper to him in his central position; and though he were able to
offer only the sacrifice of the spring, small compared with the fulness of
the sacrifices in summer and autumn, it would be accepted.

Line 3 is weak, in the place of a strong line, and advanced from the central
place. The topmost line, moreover, is no proper correlate. But its subject
is possessed by the desire for union; and though 2 and 4 decline to associate
with him, he presses on to 6, which is also desirous of union. That common
desire brings them together, notwithstanding 3 and 6 are both divided
lines; and with difficulty the subject of 3 accomplishes his object.

(But that an ordinary rule for interpreting the lineal indications may be
thus overruled by extraordinary considerations shows how much of fancy
there is in the symbolism or in the commentaries on it.)

Line 4 has its correlate in 1, and is near to the ruling line in 5. We may
expect a good auspice for it; but its being strong in an odd place, calls for
the caution which is insinuated.
Ts’u!I 235

Line 5 is strong, central, and in its correct position. Through its subject
there may be expected the full realisation of the idea of the hexagram.

Line 6, weak, and at the extremity of the figure, is still anxious for union;
but he has no proper correlate, and all below are united in 5. Its subject
mourns his solitary condition; and his good feeling will preserve him from
error and blame.

On the Commentary

The lower trigram in Ts’ui is K’un, whose attribute is docile obedience;
and the upper is Tui, whose attribute is pleased satisfaction. Then we have
the strong line in 5, and its proper correlate in 2. These things may give
the idea of union. They might also give the idea of other good things.

The K’ang-hsi editors say that though ‘all is done in accordance with
the ordinances of Heaven’ follows the concluding clauses of the [Judg-
ment], yet the sentiment of the words must be extended to the other clauses
as well. Ch’eng-tzu says that ‘the ordinances of Heaven’ are simply the
natural and practical outcome of ‘heavenly principle;’—in this case what
should and may be done according to the conditions and requirement of
the time. So do the critics of China try to shirk the idea of personality in
‘Heaven.’

With paragraph 3, compare the concluding paragraphs of the [Com-
mentary] on hexagrams 31, 32.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

What has this Great Symbolism to do with the idea and preservation of
union? The question is answered in this way:— A marsh whose waters are
high up above the earth must be kept in by banks and dykes, to keep them to-
gether, to preserve them from being dispersed. So the union of a people
must be preserved by precautions against what would disturb and destroy
it. Of such precautions the chief is to be prepared to resist attack from
without, and to put down internal sedition.

[Line] 3. The topmost line is the last in Tui, whose attribute is com-
placent satisfaction, appearing in flexibilicy or docility.

{Line] 5. ‘His mind and aim have not yet been brilliantly displayed: —
this is in explanation of the case that some may even still not have con-
fidence in him.

[Line} 6. The topmost position is that of the trigram; the subject of the
line might bid farewell to all the work of the hexagram; but he cannot bear
to do so.
236 SHENG

—~ — 46
— = SHENG

—— Ascending
Component Trigrams

~~ —— Above: K’un—the earth, female, passive, receptive

——— Below: Sun-wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Sheng indicates that (under its conditions) there will be great
progress and success. Seeking by (the qualities implied in it) to
meet with the great man, its subject need have no anxiety. Ad-
vance to the south will be fortunate.

COMMENTARY

(We find) the weak (line), as it finds the opportunity, ascending
upwards.

We have (the attribute) of flexibility and that of obedience; we
have the strong line (below) and its proper correlate above: —
these things indicate that there will be ‘great progress and success.’

‘Seeking (by the qualities implied in Sheng) to meet with the
great man, its subject need have no anxiety:’ —there will be ground
for congratulation.

‘Advance to the south will be fortunate:’— his aim will be carried
out.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] wood and that for the earth with the wood
growing in the midst of it form Sheng. The superior man, in ac-
cordance with this, pays careful attention to his virtue, and ac-
cumulates the small developments of it till it is high and great.

THE LINES

© Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows its subject advancing upwards
SHENG 237

with the welcome (of those above him). There will be great
fortune.

‘He is welcomed in his advance upwards, and there will be great
good fortune:’—(the subjects of) the upper (trigram) are of the
same mind with him.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject with that sincerity
which will make even the (small) offerings of the vernal sacrifice
acceptable. There will be no error.

‘The sincerity of the subject of the second line, undivided,’
affords occasion for joy.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject ascending upwards
(as into) an empty city.

‘He advances upwards (as into) an empty city:’—he has no
doubt or hesitation.

Six in the fourth place: \

The fourth line, divided,!shows its subject employed by the
king to present his offerings on mount Ch’i. There will be good
fortune; there will be no mistake.

‘The king employs him to present his offerings on mount Ch’i:’ —
such a service (of spiritual Beings) is according to (their mind).

OSix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject firmly correct, and
therefore enjoying good fortune. He ascends the stairs (with all
due ceremony).

‘He is firmly correct, and will therefore enjoy good fortune. He
ascends the stairs (with all due ceremony):’—he grandly succeeds
in his aim.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows its subject advancing upwards
blindly. Advantage will be found in a ceaseless maintenance of
firm correctness.

‘He blindly advances upwards,’ and is in the highest place: ~
but there is decay in store for him, and he will not (preserve) his
riches.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character Sheng is used of advancing in an upward direction, ‘ad-
vancing and ascending.’ And here, as the name of the hexagram, it denotes
238 SHENg

the advance of a good officer to the highest pinnacle of distinction. The
second line, in the centre of the lower trigram, is strong, but the strength
is tempered by its being in an even place. As the representative of the sub-
ject of the hexagram, it shows him to be possessed of modesty and force,
Then the ruler’s seat, the fifth place, is occupied by a divided line, indi-
cating that he will welcome the advance of 2. The officer therefore both
has the qualities that fit him to advance, and a favourable opportunity to
do so. The result of his advance will be fortunate.

It is said that after he has met with the ruler, ‘the great man’ in 5, ‘ad-
vance to the south will be fortunate.’ Chu Hsi and other critics say that
‘advancing to the south’ is equivalent simply to ‘advancing forwards.” The
south is the region of brightness and warmth; advance towards it will be a
joyful progress. As P. Regis explains the phrase, the traveller will proceed
‘via recta simillima illi qua itur ad austrates felicesque plagas.’

Line 1 is weak, where it should be strong; its subject, that is, is humble
and docile. Those above him, therefore, welcome his advance. Another
interpretation of the line is suggested by [the Commentary]; which de-
serves consideration. As the first line of Sun, moreover, it may be supposed
to concentrate in itself its attribute of docility, and be the lord of the tri-
gram.

See on the second line of Ts’ui [hexagram 45). Line 2 is strong, and the
weak 5 is its proper correlate. We have a strong officer serving a weak ruler;
he could not do so unless he were penetrated with a sincere and devoted
loyalty.

Paragraph 3 describes the boldness and fearlessness of the advance of
the third line. According to the K’ang-hsi editors, who, I think, are right,
there is a shade of condemnation in the line. Its subject is too bold.

Line 4 occupies the place of a great minister, in immediate contiguity to
his ruler, who confides in him, and raises him to the highest distinction as
a feudal prince. The mention of mount Ch'i, at the foot of which was the
capital of the lords of Chou, seems to take the paragraph out of the sphere
of symbolism into that of history. ‘The king’ in it is the last sovereign of
Shang; the feudal prince in it is Wen.

In line 5 the advance has reached the highest point of dignity, and firm
correctness is specially called for. ‘Ascending the steps of a stair’ may
intimate, as Chu Hsi says, the ease of the advance; or according to others
(the K’ang-hsi editors among them), its ceremonious manner.

What can the subject of the hexagram want more? He has gained all his
wishes, and still he is for going onwards. His advance is blind and foolish;
and only the most exact correctness will save him from the consequences.

On the Commentary

The explanation of the first paragraph has given occasion to much dif-
ference of opinion. Some will have ‘the weak (line)’ to be 4; some 5; and some
the whole of K'un, the upper trigram. The advocates of 4, make it come from
hexagram 40, the weak 3 of which ascends to the strong 4, displaces it, and
takes its place; but we have seen repeatedly the folly of the doctrine of
changing lines and figures. The Great Symbolism suggests the proper ex-
planation. The lower trigram, Sun, represents here not wind but wood.
SHENG 239

The first line, weak, is the root of a tree planted beneath the earth. Its
gradual growth symbolises the advance upwards of the subject of the hexa-
gram, fostered, that is, by the circumstances of the time.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

See what has been said on the Great Symbolism [above]. The applica-
tion which is made of it here may be accepted, though it has nothing to do
with the teaching of the Text about the gradual rise of a good officer to high
social distinction and influence.

[Line] 1. Instead of finding in this the three lines of K’un and their sub-
jects, Ch'eng-tzu makes ‘the upper’ denote only line 2.

[Line] 2. The subject of line 2 in his loyal devotion to 5 will do much
good and benefit many; hence we have the words, ‘affords occasion for joy.’

[Line] 3. ‘He has no doubt or hesitation:”—but this is presuming rather
on his strength.

[Line] 4. The K’ang-hsi editors say: —‘Such an employment of men of
worth to do service to spiritual Beings is serving them according to their
mind.’

[Line] 6. When one has reached the greatest height, he should think of
retiring. Ambition otherwise may overleap itself.
240 Kun

47
K’'UN
Oppression

hI

Component Trigrams

Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

lt

Below: K’an— water, a pit, danger

JUDGMENT

In (the condition denoted by) K’an there may (yet be) progress
and success. For the firm and correct, the (really) great man, there
will be good fortune. He will fall into no error. If he make speeches,
his words cannot be made good.

COMMENTARY

In K’un (we see) the strong (lines) covered and obscured (by the
weak).

We have in it (the attribute of) perilousness going on to that of
satisfaction. Who is it but the superior man that, though straitened,
still does not fail in making progress to his proper end?

‘For the firm and correct, the (really) great man, there will be
good fortune:’—this is shown by the central positions of the strong
(lines).

‘If he make speeches, his words cannot be made good:’—to be
fond of arguing or pleading is the way to be reduced to extremity.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a marsh, and (below it that for a defile, which
has drained the other dry so that there is) no water in it, form K’un.
The superior man, in accordance with this, will sacrifice his life
in order to carry out his purpose.
K’uN 241

THE LINES

Six.in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows its subject with bare buttocks
straitened under the stump of a tree. He enters a dark valley, and
for three years has no prospect (of deliverance).

‘He enters a dark valley:’—so benighted is he, and without clear
vision.

© Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject straitened amidst
his wine and viands. There come to him anon the red knee-covers
(of the ruler). It will be well for him (to maintain his sincerity as)
in sacrificing. Active operations (on his part) will lead to evil, but
he will be free from blame.

‘He is straitened amidst his wine and viands:’ — (but) his position
is central, and there will be ground for congratulation.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject straitened before a
(frowning) rock. He lays hold of thorns. He enters his palace, and
does not see his wife. There will be evil.

‘He lays hold of thorns:’—(this is suggested by the position of
the line) above the strong (line).

‘He enters his palace, and does not see his wife:’—this is in-
auspicious.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject proceeding very
slowly (to help the subject of the first line), who is straitened by
the carriage adorned with metal in front of him. There will be oc-
casion for regret, but the end will be good.

‘He proceeds very slowly (to help the subject of the first line):’—
his aim is directed to (help) that lower (line). Although he is not in
his appropriate place, he and that other will (in the end) be to-
gether.

ONine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject with his nose and
feet cut off. He is straitened by (his ministers in their) scarlet
aprons. He is leisurely in his movements, however, and is satisfied.
Tt will be well for him to be (as sincere) as in sacrificing (to spiritual
beings).

‘His nose and feet are cut off:’—his aim has not yet been gained.
242 K'un

‘He is leisurely, however, in his movements, and is satisfied:’ —
his position is central and (his virtue) is correct.

‘It will be well for him to be (as sincere as) in sacrificing:’—so
shall he receive blessing.

Six at the op:

The sixth line, divided, shows its subject straitened, as if bound
with creepers; or in a high and dangerous position, and saying (to
himself), ‘If I move, I shall repent it” If he do repent of former
errors, there will be good fortune in his going forward.

‘He is straitened as if bound with creepers:’— (his spirit and
action) are unsuitable.

‘(He says), “If I move, I shall repent of it.” And he does repent
(of former errors), which leads to good fortune:’—so he (now)
goes on.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character K'un presents us with the picture of a tree within an en-
closure; ‘a plant,’ according to Williams, ‘fading for want of room;’ ‘a tree,’
according to Tai Tung, ‘not allowed to spread its branches.” However this
be, the term conveys the idea of being straitened and distressed; and this
hexagram indicates a state of things in which the order and government
that would conduce to the well-being of the country can hardly get the
development, which, by skilful management on the part of ‘the great man’
and others, is finally secured for them.

Looking at the figure we see that the two central places are occupied by
strong lines; but 2 is confined between 1 and 3, both of which are weak, and
5 (the ruler), as well as 4 (his minister), is covered by the weak 6; all which
peculiarities are held to indicate the repression or straitening of good men
by bad. For the way in which the same view is derived from the Great
Symbolism, see [the notes below on it].

The concluding sentence of the [Judgment] is literally, ‘If he speak, he
will not be believed;” but the K’ang-hsi editors give sufficient reasons for
changing one character so as to give the meaning in the translation. ‘Ac-
tions,’ not words, are what are required in the case.

The symbolism of ‘buttocks’ is rather a favourite with the duke of
Chou; —‘chacun & son goit” The poor subject of line 1 sitting on a mere
stump, which affords him no shelter, is indeed badly off. The line is at the
bottom of the trigram indicating peril, and 4, which is its proper correlate,
is so circumstanced as not to be able to render it help; hence comes the un-
favourable auspice. ‘Three years’ is used, as often, for a long time.

The three strong lines in the figure (2, 4, and 5) are all held to represent
‘superior men;’ and their being straitened is not in their persons or estates,
but in their principles which are denied development. Hence the subject
of 2 is straitened while he fares sumptuously. His correlate in 5, though
not quite proper, occupies the ruler’s place, and comes to his help. That it
K'uN 243

is the ruler who comes appears from his red or vermillion knee-covers, dif-
ferent from the scarlet knee-covers worn by nobles, as in paragraph 5. Let
7 cultivate his sincerity and do the work of the hexagram as if he were
sacrificing to spiritual beings; and then, if he keep quiet, all will be well.

For ‘a full explanation’ of paragraph 3 Chu Hsi refers his readers to
what Confucius is made to say on it in [“The Great Treatise,” in Part
IV,]ii, 35. The reader, however, will probably not find much light in that
passage. The K’ang-hsi editors say here: — ‘The subjects of the three di-
vided lines (1, 3, and 6) are all unable to deal aright with the straitened state
indicated by the figure. The first is at the bottom, sitting and distressed.
The second, occupies the third place, where he may either advance or re-
treat; and he advances and is distressed. Wounded abroad, he returns to his
family, and finds none to receive him; so graphically is there set forth the
distress which reckless action brings.’

Line 4 is the proper correlate of 1, but it is a strong line in an even place,
and its assistance is given dilatorily. Then 1 is over-ridden by 2, which is
represented by ‘a chariot of metal.” It is difficult for the subjects of 1 and 4
to come together, and effect much; but 4 is near 5, which is also a strong”
line. Through a common sympathy, the subject of 5 will have a measure of
success. So the symbolism of this line has been explained, — not very satis-
factorily.

Line 5 is repressed by 6, and pressed on by 4. Above and below its
subject is wounded. Especially is he straitened by the minister in 4, with
his scarlet knee-covers. But the upper trigram is Tui, with the quality of
complacent satisfaction. And this indicates, it is said, that the subject of 5
gets on notwithstanding his straits, expecially by his sincerity. This ex-
planation is not more satisfactory than the last.

Line 6 is at the top of the figure, where the distress may be supposed to
reach its height. Its subject appears bound and on a perilous summit. But
his extremity is also his opportunity. He is moved to think of repenting;
and if he do repent, and go forward, his doing so will be fortunate.

On the Commentary

1. One sees the relative position of the strong and weak lines in the
figure; but to deduce from that the idea expressed by K'un requires a pain-
ful straining of the imagination. That idea was in the mind, and then the
lines were interpreted accordingly.

2. ‘Perilousness’ is the attribute of the lower trigram, and ‘satisfaction’
that of the upper. The superior man, however straitened, remains master
of himself, and pursues the proper end of principle settled in his mind.

Why should the subject of K'un make speeches, be fond of arguing or
pleading, —as the, characters say, if we could translate them literally, ‘set-
ting a value on the mouth?’ The reply to this is found in the trigram denot-
ing ‘satisfaction,’ or ‘being pleased.” The party in the extremity of K'un yet
wishes and tries to make men pleased with him.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The first sentence of the Great Symbolism is constructed differently
from any which has presented itself in the previous 46 hexagrams. Literally
244 K’un

translated, it would be ‘a marsh with no water is K'un;’ and this might
certainly suggest to us a condition of distress. But how does this come out
of the trigrams? The upper one is Tui, representing a marsh; and the lower
is Kan, representing water in a defile. The collocation of the two suggests
the running of the water from the marsh or lake into the stream, which will
soon empty the other. Such is the view which occurred to myself; and it is
the same as that given by Chu Hsi: — ‘The water descending and leaking
away, the marsh above will become dry.’ The application is good in itself,
but the concatenation between it and the Symbolism is hardly discernible.

So stupid is the subject of line 1 that by his own act he increases his
distress.

The K’ang-hsi editors say that the ‘ground for congratulation in [line] 2
is the banqueting and sacrificing.” I rather think it is the measure of help,
which it is intimated the subject will give in removing the straitness and
distress of the time.

The difficulties attending the symbolism of the Text of lines 4, 5, and 6
are not lightened by what we find in [the explanatory paragraphs attributed
to Confucius].
CHING 245

— 48
— — CHING
— — A Well

Component Trigrams

— —

 

Above: K’'an— water, a pit, danger
P g

 

Below: Sun—wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

(Looking at) Ching, (we think of) how (the site of) a town may
be changed, while (the fashion of) its wells undergoes no change.
(The water of a well) never disappears and never receives (any
great) increase, and those who come and those who go can draw
and enjoy the benefit. If (the drawing) have nearly been accom-
plished, but, before the rope has quite reached the water, the
bucket is broken, this is evil.

COMMENTARY

(We have the symbol of) wood in the water and the raising of
the water; which (gives us the idea of) a well. A well supplies
nourishment and is not (itself) exhausted.

‘The site of a town may be changed, while the fashion of its
wells undergoes no change:’—this is indicated by the central posi-
tion of the strong lines (in the second and fifth places).

‘The drawing is nearly accomplished, but the rope has not yet
reached the water of the well:"—its service has not yet been ac-
complished.

‘The bucket is broken:’—it is this that occasions evil.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

{The symbol of] wood and above it that for water form Ching.
The superior man, in accordance with this, comforts the people,
and stimulates them to mutual helpfulness.
246 Cuing

THE LINES

Six in the first place:

The first line, divided, shows a well so muddy that men will not
drink of it; or an old well to which neither birds (nor other crea-
tures) resort.

‘A well so muddy that men will not drink of it:’—this is in-
dicated by the low position (of the line).

‘An old well to which the birds do not come:’ —it has been for-
saken in the course of time.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows a well from which by a hole
the water escapes and flows away to the shrimps (and such small
creatures among the grass), or one the water of which leaks away
from a broken basket.

‘A well from which by a hole the water escapes, and flows away
to the shrimps:’—(the subject of this second line has) none co-
operating with him (above).

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows a well, which has been cleared
out, but is not used. Our hearts are sorry for this, for the water
might be drawn out and used. If the king were (only) intelligent,
both he and we might receive the benefit of it.

“The well has been cleared out, but is not used:’ — (even) passers-
by would be sorry for this.

A prayer is made ‘that the king were intelligent:’—for then
blessing would be received.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows a well, the lining of which is
well laid. There will be no error.

‘A well the lining of which is well laid. There will be no error:’—
the well has been put in good repair.

ONine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows a clear, limpid well, (the waters
from) whose cold spring are (freely) drunk.

“The waters from the cold spring are (freely) drunk:’—this is
indicated by the central and correct position (of the line).

Six at the top:
The topmost line, divided, shows (the water from) the well
CHING 247

prought to the top, which is not allowed to be covered. This sug-
ests the idea of sincerity. There will be great good fortune.

“The great good fortune’ at the topmost place indicates the
grand accomplishment (of the idea in the hexagram).

LEGGE’S NOTES

Ching, which gives its name to this hexagram, is the symbol of a well.
The character originally was pictorial ( IH intended to represent a por-
tion of land, divided into nine parts, the central portion belonging to the
government, and being cultivated by the joint labour of the eight families
settled on the other divisions. In the centre of it, moreover, was a well,
which was the joint property of all the occupants.

What is said on Ching might be styled ‘Moralisings on a well,’ or ‘Les-
sons to be learned from a well for the good order and government of a coun-
try. What a well is to those in its neighbourhood, and indeed to men in
general, that is government to a people. If rulers would only rightly appre-
ciate the principles of government handed down from the good ages of the
past, and faithfully apply them to the regulation of the present, they would
be blessed themselves and their people with them.

In the [Judgment] we have the well, substantially the same through
many changes of society; a sure source of dependance to men, for their
refreshment and for use in their cultivation of the ground. Its form is what
I have seen in the plains of northern China; what may be seen among our-
selves in many places in Europe. It is deep, and the water is drawn up by a
vessel let down from the top; and the value of the well depends on the
water being actually raised. And so the principles of government must be
actually carried out.

Line 1, being weak, and at the very bottom of the figure, suggests, or is
made to suggest, the symbolism of it. Many men in authority are like such
a well; corrupt, useless, unregarded.

Line 2 is strong, and might very well symbolise an active spring, ever
feeding the well and, through it, the ground and its cultivators; but it is in
an inappropriate place, and has no proper correlate. Its cool waters cannot
be brought to the top. So important is it that the ministers of a country
should be able and willing rightly to administer its government. In the ac-
count of the ancient Shun it is stated that he once saved his life by an
opening in the lining of a well.

Line 3 is a strong line, in its proper place; and must represent an able
minister or officer. But though the well is clear, no use is made of it. I do
not find anything in the figure that can be connected with this fact. The
author was wise beyond his lines. After the first sentence of the paragraph,
the duke of Chou ceases from his function of making emblems; reflects and
moralises.

Line 4is weak, but in its proper place. Its subject is not to be condemned,
but neither is he to be praised. He takes care of himself, but does nothing
for others.
248 CHING

Line 5 is strong, and in its right place. The place is that of the ruler, and
suggests the well, full of clear water, which is drawn up, and performs its
useful work. Such is the good Head of government to his people.

Line 6 is in its proper place, but weak. If the general idea of the figure
was different, a bad auspice might be drawn from it. But here we see in it
the symbol of the water drawn up, and the top uncovered so that the use
of the well is free to all. Then the mention of ‘sincerity’ suggests the inex-
haustibleness of the elemental supply.

On the Commentary

Kang K’ang-ch’eng says: —‘K’an, the upper trigram, represents water,
and Sun, the lower, wood. This wood denotes the water-wheel or pulley
with its bucket, which descends into the mouth of the spring, and brings
the water up to the top.’ This may be a correct explanation of the figure,
though the reading of it from bottom to top seems at first to be strange.

Paragraph 2. That the fashion of the well does not undergo any (great)
change is, dwelt upon as illustrating the unchangeableness of the great
principles of human nature and of government. But that this truth may be
learned from the strong and central lines only produces a smile. So do the
remarks on the other two sentences of the [Judgment].

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The Great Symbolism here may well enough represent a well, it being
understood that the water which is above the wood is that raised by it for
irrigation and other uses. What is said, moreover, in the application is more
akin to the idea of the hexagram than in most of the other cases. It is cer-
tainly one way in which the ruler should nourish the people.

It is said on [line] 1:—‘Those who have a mind to do something in the
world, when they look at this line, and its symbolism, will learn how they
ought to exert themselves.’

Rather in opposition to what I have said on the Text of line 4, the ‘Daily
Lecture’ observes here:—‘The cultivation of one’s self, which is repre-
sented here, is fundamental to the government of others.’
249

 

Ko
—— 49
—— KO
—_—| Revolution
Component Trigrams
—— Above: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction
—— — Below: Li—fire, brightness, beauty
JUDGMENT

(What takes place as indicated by) Ko is believed in only after
it has been accomplished. There will be great progress and suc-
cess. Advantage will come from being: firm and correct. (In that
case) occasion for repentance will disappear.

COMMENTARY

In Ko (we see) water and fire extinguishing each other; (we see
also) two daughters dwelling together, but with their minds di-
rected to different objects: —(on account of these things) it is
called (the hexagram of) Change.

‘It is believed in (only) after it has been accomplished:’— when
the change has been made, faith is accorded to it.

(We have) cultivated intelligence (as the basis of) pleased satis-
faction, (suggesting) ‘great progress and success, coming from
what is correct.

When change thus takes place in the proper way, ‘occasion for
Tepentance disappears.’

Heaven and earth undergo their changes, and the four seasons
complete their functions. T’ang changed the appointment (of
the line of Hsia to the throne), and Wu (that of the line of Shang),
in accordance with (the will of) Heaven, and in response to (the
wishes of) men. Great indeed is what takes place in a time of
change.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM
[The symbol of] the waters of a marsh and that for fire in the
250 Ko

midst of them form Ko. The superior man, in accordance with
this, regulates his (astronomical) calculations, and makes clear the
seasons and times.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject (as if he were) bound
with the skin of a yellow ox.

‘He is bound with (the skin of) a yellow ox:’—he should in his
circumstances be taking action.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject making his changes
after some time has passed. Action taken will be fortunate. There
will be no error.

‘He makes his changes when some time has passed:”— what he
does will be matter of admiration.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows that action taken by its subject
will be evil Though he be firm and correct, his position is peril-
ous. If the change (he contemplates) have been three times fully
discussed, he will be believed in.

‘The change (contemplated) has been three times fully dis-
cussed:”— to what else should attention (now) be directed?

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows occasion for repentance dis-
appearing (from its subject). Let him be believed in; and though he
change (existing) ordinances, there will be good fortune.

“The good fortune consequent on changing (existing) ordinances’
is due to the faith reposed in his aims.

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows the great man (producing his
changes) as the tiger (does when he) changes (his stripes). Before
he divines (and proceeds to action), faith has been reposed in him.

“The great man produces his changes as the tiger does when he
changes his stripes:’ — their beauty becomes more brilliant.

Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows the superior man producing his
changes as the leopard (does when he) changes (his spots), while
small men change their faces (and show their obedience). To go
forward (now) would lead to evil, but there will be good fortune in
abiding firm and correct.
Ko 251

“The superior man produces his changes as the leopard does
when he changes his spots:’— their beauty becomes more elegant.

‘Small men change their faces’ —they show themselves pre-
pared to follow their ruler.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character called Ko or Keh is used here in the sense of changing.
Originally used for the skin of an animal or bird, alive or dead, it received
the significance of changing at a very early time. Its earliest appearance,
indeed, in the first Book of the Shu, is in that sense. How the transition was
made from the idea of a skin or hide to that of change is a subject that need
not be entered on here. The author has before him the subject of changes
occurring —called for —in the state of the country; it may be on the great-
est scale. The necessity of them is recognised, and hints are given as to the
spirit and manner in which they should be brought about.

For the way in which the notion of change is brought out of the tri-
grams of the figure, see {the Commentary and Great Symbolism]. It is as-
sumed in the [Judgment] that change is viewed by people generally with
suspicion and dislike, and should not be made hastily. When made as a
necessity, and its good effects appear, the issues will be great and good. A
proved necessity for them beforehand; and a firm correctness in the con-
duct of them: — these are the conditions by which changes should be regu-
lated.

Line 1, at the bottom of the figure, may be taken as denoting change
made at too early a period. It has no proper correlate or helper, moreover,
above. Hence its subject is represented as tied up, unable to take any
action.

Line 2, though weak, is in its correct place. It is in the centre also of the
trigram Li, signifying brightness and intelligence, and has a proper corre-
late in the strong 5. Let its subject take action in the way of change.

The symbolism of paragraph 3 is twofold. The line is strong, and in the
correct position, but it has passed the centre of Sun and is on its outward
verge. These conditions may dispose its subject to reckless and violent
changing which would be bad. But if he act cautiously and with due de-
liberation, he may take action, and he will be believed in.

Line 4 is strong, but in the place of a weak line. This might vitiate any
action of its subject in the way of change, and give occasion for repentance.
But other conditions are intimated that will have a contrary effect; and if
he have further secured general confidence, he may proceed to the greatest
changes, even to change the dynasty, — ‘with good fortune.” The conditions
favourable to his action are said to be such as these: — The line has passed
from the lower trigram into the upper; water and fire come in it into con-
tact; the fourth place is that of the minister immediately below the ruler’s
seat. All these considerations demand action from the subject of 4 in har-
mony with the idea of the hexagram.

_ Line $5 has every quality proper to ‘the lord of the hexagram,’ and his ac-
tion will be in every way beneficial. He is symbolled by the tiger; and the
252 Ko

changes which he makes by the bright stripes of the tiger when he has
changed his coat.

Line 6 is weak, but its subject is penetrated with the spirit of the hexa-
gram. If its subject be a superior man, only inferior to ‘the great man,
immediately below, the changes he makes will be inferior only to his. If
he be a small man, he will be compliant and submissive. The lesson for
him, however, is to abide firm and correct without taking any action of
his own.

On the Commentary

1. Li, the lower trigram, represents fire, and Tui, the upper, represents
water. Water will extinguish fire, and fire again will dry up water. Each,
to all appearance, produces a change in the other. Again, according to
King Wen’s scheme of the trigrams, as shown on p. 352, and in Figure I,
Plate III, Li is the second, and Tui the youngest daughter. Their wills are
likely to differ in love and other things; but this symbolism does not so
readily suggest the idea of change.

2. The first sentence suggests how the dislike to change on the part of
people generally is overcome.

The second suggests how change proceeding from intelligence and
giving general satisfaction will be successful.

Paragraph 3 tells us how the greatest natural and the greatest political
changes are equally successful and admirable when conducted aright.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Wise men, occupying themselves with the determination of the seasons
and questions of time, have in all ages based their judgments on the ob-
servation of the heavenly bodies. We find this insisted on in the first book
of the Shu, by the ancient Yao. But how this application of the Great Sym-
bolism really flows from it, I must confess myself unable to discover.
Once, however, when 1 was conversing about the I with a high Chinese
dignitary, who was a well-read scholar also so far as his own literature was.
concerned, he referred to this paragraph as proving that all our western
science had been known to Fu-hsi and Confucius!

What is said on the several lines is sufficiently illustrated in the notes on
the Text.
253

50
TING
—— The Caldron

— —

Ii)

Component Trigrams

Above: Li— fire, brightness, beauty

1

Below: Sun— wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Ting gives the intimation of great progress and success.

COMMENTARY

In Ting we have (symbolically) the figure of a caldron. (We see)
the (symbol of) wood entering into that of fire, which suggests the
idea of cooking. The sages cooked their offerings in order to pre-
sent them to God, and made great feasts to nourish their wise
and able (ministers).

We have (the symbol of) flexible obedience, and that (which
denotes) ears quick of hearing and eyes clear-sighted. (We have
also) the weak (line) advanced and acting above, in the central
Place, and responded to by the strong (line below). All these things
give the idea of ‘great progress and success.’

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] wood and above it that [of] fire form Ting.
The superior man, in accordance with this, keeps his every posi-
tion correct, and maintains secure the appointment (of Heaven).

THE LINES

Six in the forst place:

The first line, divided, shows the caldron overthrown and its
feet turned up. (But) there will be advantage in its getting rid of
What was bad in it. (Or it shows us) the concubine (whose position
15 improved) by means of her son. There will be no error.
254 Tine

‘The caldron is overturned, and its feet turned upwards: — but
this is not (all) contrary (to what is right).

‘There will be advantage in getting rid of what was bad: ~
thereby (the subject of the line) will follow the more noble (sub.
ject of the fourth line).

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows the caldron with the things
(to be cooked) in it. (If its subject can say), ‘My enemy dislikes me,
but he cannot approach me,’ there will be good fortune.

‘There is the caldron with the things (to be cooked) in it:’—let
(the subject of the line) be careful where he goes.

‘My enemy dislikes me:’—but there will in the end be no fault
(to which he can point).

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows the caldron with (the places of)
its ears changed. The progress (of its subject) is (thus) stopped. The
fat flesh of the pheasant (which is in the caldron) will not be eaten.
But the (genial) rain will come, and the grounds for repentance
will disappear. There will be good fortune in the end.

‘There is the caldron with (the places for) its ears changed: —
(its subject) has failed in what was required of him (in his situation).

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows the caldron with its feet
broken; and its contents, designed for the ruler’s use, overturned
and spilt. Its subject will be made to blush for shame. There will
be evil.

‘The contents designed for the ruler’s use are overturned and
spilt:’ — how can (the subject of the line) be trusted?

© Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows the caldron with yellow ears and
rings of metal in them. There will be advantage through being
firm and correct.

‘The caldron has yellow ears:’—the central position (of the line)
is taken as (a proof of) the solid (virtue of its subject).

o Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows the caldron with rings of jade.
There will be great good fortune, and all action taken will be in
every way advantageous.

‘The rings of jade’ are at the very top: — the strong and the weak
meet in their due proportions.
TING 255

LEGGE'S NOTES

Ting was originally a pictorial character, representing a caldron with
three feet and two ears, used for cooking and preparing food for the table
(the mat in old times) and the altar. The picture has disappeared from the
character, but it is said that in the hexagram we have an outline from which
fancy may construct the vessel. The lower line, divided, represents its
feet; lines 2, 3, 4, all undivided, represent the body of it; line 5, divided,
represents its two ears; and line 6, undivided, the handle by which it was
carried, or suspended from a hook. [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexa-
grams,” in Part IV] makes Ting follow Ko in the order of the hexagrams,
because there is no changer of the appearance and character of things equal
to the furnace and caldron!

Ting and Ching (48) are the only two hexagrams named from things in
ordinary use with men; and they are both descriptive of the government’s
work of nourishing. There are three hexagrams of which that is the theme,
1(27), under which we are told in [the Commentary] that ‘the sages nour-
ished men of worth, by means of them to reach to the myriads of the peo-
ple.’ Ching treats of the nourishment of the people generally by the govern-
ment through its agricultural and other methods; Ting treats of the nour-
ishment of men of talents and virtue; and that being understood, it is said,
without more ado, that it ‘intimates great progress and success.’ The Text
that follows, however, is more difficult to interpret than that of Ching.

Line 1 is weak, and little or nothing can be expected from its subject.
But it has a proper correlate in the strong 4; and the disastrous overthrow,
causing the feet to be directed towards 4, is understood to be lucky, as ac-
celerating the co-operation of their two lines! The overturned caldron is
thereby emptied of bad stuff that had accumulated in it!! The writer uses
another illustration, which comes to the same thing. A concubine is less
honourable than a wife,—like the overthrown caldron. But if she have a
son, while the proper wife has none, he will be his father’s heir, and the
mother, the concubine, will share in the honour of his position. Thus the
issue of what was so unpromising is good. At least ‘there is no mistake.’
The above is what is found in the best commentaries on the paragraph. I
give it, but am myself dissatisfied with it.

Line 2 is strong. “The enemy’ is the first line, which solicits 1. One, how-
ever, is able to resist the solicitation; and the whole paragraph gives a good
auspice. The personal pronoun seems to show that the whole was, or was
intended to be, understood as an oracular response in divination. This
paragraph is rhymed, moreover, as are also 1, 3, and 4: —

‘In the caldron is good fare,
See my foe with angry glare;
But touch me he does not dare.’

} Line 3 is also strong, and in the proper place; and if its correlate were the
divided 5, its auspice would be entirely good. But instead of 5, its correlate
Is the strong 6. The place of the ears at § has been changed. Things promise
256 Ting

badly. The advance of 3 is stopped. The good meat in the caldron which it
symbolises will not be eaten. But 3 keeping firm 5 will by and by seek its
society! The yin and the yang will mingle, and their union will be followed
by genial rain. The issue will be good.

Line 4 is in the place of a great minister, who is charged with the most
difficult duties, which no single man can sustain. Then the strength of 4 is
weakened by being in an even place, and its correlate is the weak 1 in the
lowest place. Its subject is insufficient of himself for his work, and he has
no sufficient help; and the result will be evil.

‘Paragraph 5,’ says the Daily Lecture, ‘praises the ruler as condescending
to the worthy with his humble virtue.” ‘Yellow’ has occurred repeatedly
as ‘a correct colour;’ and here ‘the yellow ears and strong rings of metal’
are intended to intensify our appreciation of the occupant of 5. As the line
is divided, a caution is added about being firm and correct.

Line 6 is strong, but the strength is tempered by its being in an even
place. It is this which makes the handle to be of jade, which, though very
hard, is supposed to have a peculiar and rich softness of its own. The aus-
pice of ‘the line is very good. “The great minister, it is said, ‘the subject of
6,’ performs for the ruler, the subject of 5, in helping his government and
nourishing the worthy, the part which the handle does for the caldron.

On the Commentary

1. See the notes [above] about the figure of a caldron in Ting. Its com-
ponent trigrams are Sun representing wood, and Li representing fire;
which may very well suggest the idea of cooking. The last sentence of the
paragraph is entirely after the style of ‘the Great Symbolism.” The K’ang-
hsi editors say that the distinction between Ching and Ting appears here
very clearly, the former relating to the nourishment of the people, and the
latter to the nourishing men of worth. They add that the reality of the
offerings to God is such nourishing. ‘God’ is here Shang Ti, which Canon
McClatchie translates ‘the First Emperor,” adding in a note, “The Chinese
Jupiter, the Emperor of gods and men!’

2. The first sentence deduces the sentiment of the [Judgment] from the
attributes or virtues of the trigrams with considerable amplificatiorr-of the
virtue of Li. The second line of Li, as being divided, calls forth in other
hexagrams the same notice as here. It is the most important line in the
figure, and being responded to by the strong 2, gives an indication of the
‘great progress and success.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The Great Symbolism here has come before us in the [Commentary].
Of the application of that symbolism I can only say that, as has been seen
in many other hexagrams, while good enough in itself, it is far-fetched.

The same remark may be made on the explanation of the Text of the
first line. I can myself do little more than guess at its meaning. The Krang-
hsi editors observe that nothing is said about the case of the ‘concubine’ in
the Text; but that it is covered by the “following the more noble,” ‘so con-
densed and complete are the words of the sage!’

The same editors find a pregnant sense in the conclusion of [line] 2: —
TING 257

There will be no fault in me to which my enemy can point, and his dis-
sition to find fault will be diminished.’

‘What v.as required of the caldron in the third line was that that line
and line 5, instead of 6, should be correlates;” but there is little meaning
in such a statement.

The subject of line 4 cannot be trusted again. He has failed in doing
what was his proper work.
258 ) CHEN

mm sz BD]
—— CHEN

Thunder (Exciting Power)
Component Trigrams

— — Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

— — Below: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

 

JUDGMENT

Chen gives the intimation of ease and development. When (the
time of) movement (which it indicates) comes, (the subject of the
hexagram) will be found looking out with apprehension, and yet
smiling and talking cheerfully. When the movement (like a crash
of thunder) terrifies all within a hundred /, he will be (like the
sincere worshipper) who is not (startled into) letting go his ladle
and (cup of) sacrificial spirits.

COMMENTARY

Chen (gives the intimation of) ease and development.

‘When the (time of) movement (which it indicates) comes, (its
subject) will be found looking out with apprehension:’— that feel-
ing of dread leads to happiness. ‘And yet smiling and talking cheer-
fully:’— the issue (of his dread) is that he adopts (proper) laws (for
his course).

“The movement (like a crash of thunder) terrifies all within a
hundred /7:’ — it startles the distant and frightens the near.

‘He will be like the sincere worshipper, who is not startled into letting
go bis ladle and cup of sacrificial spirits’ —he makes his appearance,
and maintains his ancestral temple and the altars of the spirits of
the land and grain, as presiding at all sacrifices.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] thunder, being repeated, forms Chen. The
superior man, in accordance with this, is fearful and apprehensive,
cultivates (his virtue), and examines (his faults).
CHEN 259

THE LINES

© Nine int the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject, when the movement
approaches, looking out and around with apprehension, and after-
wards smiling and talking cheerfully. There will be good fortune.

‘When the (time of) movement comes, he will be found looking
out with apprehension:’ —that feeling of dread leads to happiness.

‘He yet smiles and talks cheerfully: —the issue (of his dread) is
that he adopts (proper) laws (for his course).

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject, when the movement
approaches, in a position of peril. He judges it better to let go the
articles (in his possession), and to ascend a very lofty height. There
is no occasion for him to pursue after (the things he has let go); in
seven days he will find them.

‘When the movement approaches, he is in a position of peril: —
(a weak line) is mounted on a strong (one).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject distraught amid the
startling movements going on. If those movements excite him to
(right) action, there will be no mistake.

‘He is distraught amid the startling movements going on:’—~ (the
third line) is in a position unsuitable to it.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject, amid the startling
movements, supinely sinking (deeper) in the mud.

‘Amid the startling movements, he sinks supinely in the mud:’—
the light in him has not yet been brilliantly developed.

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject going and coming
amidst the startling movements (of the time), and always in peril;
but perhaps he will not incur loss, and find business (which he can
accomplish).

‘He goes and comes amid the startling movements, and (always)
in peril:’— full of risk are his doings.

‘What he has to do has to be done in his central position’ — far
will he be from incurring any loss.

Six at the top:
The topmost line, divided, shows its subject, amidst the startling
movements (of the time), in breathless dismay and looking round
260 CHEN

him with trembling apprehension. If he take action, there will be
evil. If, while the startling movements have not reached his own
person and his neighbourhood, (he were to take precautions), there
would be no error, though his relatives might (still) speak against
him.

‘Amid the startling movements he is in breathless dismay:’ —he
has not found out (the course of) the due mean.

‘Though evil (threatens), he will not fall into error:’—he is
afraid of being warned by his neighbours.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chen among the trigrams represents thunder, and, according to Wen’s
arrangement and significance of them, ‘the oldest son.’ It is a phonetic
character in which the significant constituent is Yui, meaning rain, and with
which are formed most characters that denote atmospherical phenomena.
The hexagram is formed of the trigram Chen doubled, and may be taken
as representing the crash or peal of thunder; but we have seen that the
attribute or virtue of the trigram is ‘moving, exciting power; and thence,
symbolically, the character is indicative of movement taking place in soci-
ety or in the kingdom. This is the meaning of the hexagram, and the sub-
ject is the conduct to be pursued in a time of movement—such as insur-
rection or revolution — by the party promoting, and most interested in, the
situation. It is shown how he ought to be aware of the dangers of the time,
and how by precaution and the regulation of himself he may overcome
them.

The indication of a successful issue given by the figure is supposed to
be given by the undivided line at the bottom of the trigram. The subject
of it must be superior to the subjects of the two divided lines above. It is
in the idea of the hexagram that he should be moving and advancing; — and
what can his movement be but successful?

The next sentence shows him sensible of the danger of the occasion, but
confident and self-possessed. The concluding sentence shows him rapt in
his own important affairs, like a sincere worshipper, thinking only of the
service in which he is engaged. Such a symbol is said to be suggested by
Wen’s significance of Chen as ‘the oldest son.’ It is his to succeed to his
father, and the hexagram, as following Ting, shows him presiding over the
sacrifices that have been prepared in the caldron. This is too fanciful.

What is said on line | is little more than a repetition of the principal
part of the [Judgment]. The line is undivided, and gives the auspice of
good fortune.

‘The position of peril’ to the subject of line 2 is suggested . .. by its posi-
tion, immediately above 1. But the rest of the symbolism is obscure, and
Chu Hsi says he does not understand it. The common interpretation ap-
pears in the version. The subject of the line does what he can to get out of
danger; and finally, as is signified by the central position of the line, the
issue is better than could have been expected. On the specification of ‘seven
CHEN 261

days,’ see what is said in the [Commentary] of hexagram 24. On its use
here Ch’eng-tzu says: — “The places of a diagram amount to 6. The number
7 is the first of another. When the movement symbolised by Chen is gone
by, things will be as they were before.’

Line 3 is divided, and where an undivided line should be; but if its sub-
ject move on to the fourth place, which would be right for him, the issue
will not be bad.

The 4th line, however, has a bad auspice of its own. It is undivided in
an even place, and it is pressed by the divided line on either side, hence
its subject is represented as supinely sinking in the mud.

Line § is divided, in an odd place, and that in which the action of the
hexagram may be supposed to be concentrated. Hence its subject is always
in peril; but his central position indicates safety in the end.

Line 6 is weak, and has to abide the concluding terrors of the movement.
Action on the part of its subject is sure to be evil. If, however, he were to
take precautions, he might escape with only the censures of his relatives.
But I do not see anything in the figure to indicate this final symbolism. The
writer, probably, had a case in his mind, which it suited; but what that was
we do not know.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1. See what is said [above].

2. The explanations of the [Judgment] here are good; but in no way
deduced from the figure.

3. The portion of the text printed in [italics] is supposed to have dropt
out of the Chinese copies. The explanation of it that follows is based on
Wen’s view of Chen as representing the oldest son.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The account of the Great Symbolism here calls for no remark. Nor does
the application of it; but may it not be too late to fear, and order anew one’s
thoughts and actions when the retributions in providence are taking place?
Commentators are haunted by the shadow of this question; but they are
unable rightly to meet it.

[Line] 4. Compare [line] 4 of hexagram 21.
262 Ken

X-

—— 52
— — KEN

~~ —— Mountain, Arresting Movement

Component Trigrams

— — Above: Ken — mountain, arresting progress

—— = Below: Ken— mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

When one’s resting is like that of the back, and he loses all con-
sciousness of self; when he walks in his courtyard, and does not see
any (of the persons) in it,— there will be no error.

COMMENTARY

Ken denotes stopping or resting; —resting when it is the time
to rest, and acting when it is the time to act. When one’s move-
ments and restings all take place at the proper time for them, his
way (of proceeding) is brilliant and intelligent.

Resting in one’s resting-point is resting in one’s proper place.
The upper and lower (lines of the hexagram) exactly correspond
to each other, but are without any interaction; hence it is said that
‘(the subject of the hexagram) has no consciousness of self; that
when he walks in his courtyard, he does not see (any of) the per-
sons in it; and that there will be no error.’

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain, one over the other, form Ken.
The superior man, in accordance with this, does not go in his
thoughts beyond the (duties of the) position in which he is.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows its subject keeping his toes at rest.
KEN 263

There will be no error; but it will be advantageous for him to be
ersistently firm and correct.
‘He keeps his toes at rest:’—he does not fail in what is correct
(according to the idea of the figure).

Six in the second place:

‘The second line, divided, shows its subject keeping the calves
of his legs at rest. He cannot help (the subject of the line above)
whom he follows, and is dissatisfied in his mind.

‘He cannot help him whom he follows: —(he whom he fol-
lows) will not retreat to listen to him.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject keeping his loins
at rest, and separating the ribs (from the body below). The situ-
ation is perilous, and the heart glows with suppressed excitement.

‘He keeps the loins at rest:’— the danger (from his doing so) pro-
duces a glowing heat in the heart.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject keeping his trunk
at rest. There will be no error. .

‘He keeps the trunk of his body at rest:’—he keeps himself free
(from agitation).

Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject keeping his jawbones
at rest, so that his words are (all) orderly. Occasion for repentance
will disappear.

‘He keeps his cheek bones at rest:’—in harmony with his central
position he acts correctly.

ONine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows its subject devotedly main-
taining his restfulness. There will be good fortune.

“There is good fortune through his devotedly maintaining his
testfulness:’ — to the end he shows himself generous and good.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The trigram Ken represents a mountain. Mountains rise up grandly
from the surface of the earth, and their masses rest on it in quiet and sol-
emn majesty; and they serve also to arrest the onward progress of the trav-
eller. Hence the attribute ascribed to Ken is twofold; it is both active and
Passive — resting and arresting. The character is used in this hexagram with
both of those significations. As the name of the figure, it denotes the mental
264 Ken

characteristic of resting in what is right; especially resting, as it is expresseq
by Chinese critics, ‘in principle,’ —that which is right, on the widest Scale,
and in the absolute conception of the mind; and that which is right in every
different position in which a man can be placed. We find this treated of in
the Great Learning (Commentary, chapter 3), and in the Doctrine of the
Mean, chapter 14, and other places. This is the theme of the hexagram; and
the symbolism of it is all taken from different parts of the human body, as
in hexagram 31, and the way in which they are dealt with. Several of the
paragraphs are certainly not easy to translate and interpret.

The other parts of the body, such as the mouth, eyes, and ears, have their
appetencies, which lead them to what is without themselves. The back
alone has nothing to do with anything beyond itself—hardly with itself
even; all that it has to do is to stand straight and strong. So should it be
with us, resting in principle, free from the intrusion of selfish thoughts and
external objects. Amidst society, he who realises the idea of the hexagram is
still alone, and does not allow himself to be distracted from the contem-
plation and following of principle. He is not a recluse, however, who keeps
aloof from social life; but his distinction is that he maintains a supreme
regard to principle, when alone, and when mingling with others.

In the symbolism the author rises from one part of the body to the other.
The first line at the bottom of the figure fitly suggests ‘the toes.’ The lesson
is that from the first men should rest in, and be anxious to do, what is right
in all their affairs. The weakness of the line and its being in an odd place
give occasion for the caution, with which the paragraph concludes.

Above the toes are the calves, represented by the second line, weak,
but in its proper place. Above this, again, are the loins, represented by 3,
strong, and in danger of being violent. Line 2 follows 3, and should help
it; but is unable to do so; and there results dissatisfaction.

When the calves are kept at rest, advance is stopped, but no other harm
ensues. Not so when the loins are kept at rest, and unable to bend, for the
connexion between the upper and lower parts of the body is then broken.
The dissatisfaction increases to an angry heat. Paragraph 3 is unusually
difficult. For ‘loins’ P, Regis has scapulae, and for ribs renes; Canon Mc-
Clatchie says:— ‘Third Nine is stopping at a limit, and separating what is
in continued succession (i.e. the backbone); thus the mind,’ &c.

Line 4 is a weak line resting in a proper place; hence it gives a good aus-
pice. The K’ang-hsi editors, however, call attention to the resting of the
trunk as being inferior to the resting of the back in the [Judgment].

The place of the weak fifth line is not proper for it; and this accounts
for the mention of its subject ‘repenting,’ for which, however, there is not
occasion.

The third line of the trigrams, and the sixth of the hexagram, is what
makes Ken what it is,—the symbol of a mountain. The subject of it there-
fore will carry out the resting required by the whole figure in the highest

style.
On the Commentary

1. The K’ang-hsi editors give their opinion that what is said in the first
sentence of this paragraph, after the explanation of the name, illustrates
KEN 265

the first sentence of the [Judgment], and that the other sentence illustrates
the rest of the [Judgment]. It may be so, but the whole of the [Judgment]
appears in paragraph 2.

2. The hexagram being made up of Ken repeated, lines 1, 2, 3 are of
course the same as 4, 5, 6. But it will be seen that there is not a proper
correlation among them all. I do not see, however, that this furnishes any
ground for the entire obliviousness of self, which the [Judgment] makes
out to be in the figure.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

According to the view of the K’ang-hsi editors, the application should
be translated: — The superior man, in accordance with this, thinks anx-
iously how he shall not go beyond the duties of his position.” It is difficult
to decide between this shade of the meaning, and the more common one
which I have followed.

The toes play a great part in walking; but they are here kept at rest,
and so do not lose the correct idea of Ken.

There is no correlation between lines 2 and 3, and thence the subject of
3 will hold on its upward way without condescending to 2.

Ch’eng-tzu finds an unsatisfactory auspice in [line] 4. Line 4 represents
a great minister who should be able to guide all to rest where they ought
to be; but he can only keep himself from agitation.

Yii Pen (Ming dynasty) says on [line] 5: — ‘Words should not be uttered
rashly. Then, when uttered, they will be found accordant with principle.
But it is only the master of the virtue belonging to the due mean who can
attain to this.’
N

‘66 CHIEN
=
a

53
CHIEN
Gradual Progress, Growth

Component Trigrams

Above: Sun—wind, gentle, wood, penetration

Below: Ken—mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Chien suggests to us the marriage of a young lady, and the good
fortune (attending it). There will be advantage in being firm and
correct.

COMMENTARY

The advance indicated by Chien is (like) the marrying of a young
lady which is attended by good fortune.

(The lines) as they advance get into their correct places: —this
indicates the achievements of a successful progress.

The advance is made according to correctness: —(the subject of
the hexagram) might rectify his country.

Among the places (of the hexagram) we see the strong undivided
line in the centre.

‘In (the attributes of) restfulness and flexible penetration we have
(the assurance of) an (onward) movement that is inexhaustible.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain and above it that for a tree form
Chien. The superior man, in accordance with this, attains to and
maintains his extraordinary virtue, and makes the manners of the
people good.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows the wild geese gradually approach-
CHIEN 267

ing the shore. A young officer (in similar circumstances) will be in
a position of danger, and be spoken against; but there will be no
error.

‘The danger of a small officer (as represented in the first line)
is owing to no fault of his in the matter of what is right.

0 Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows the geese gradually approach-
ing the large rocks, where they eat and drink joyfully and at ease.
There will be good fortune.

‘They eat and drink joyfully and at ease:”— but not without hav-
ing earned their food.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows them gradually advanced to
the dry plains. (It suggests also the idea of) a husband who goes
on an expedition from which he does not return, and of a wife who
is pregnant, but will not nourish her child. There will be evil. (The
case symbolised) might be advantageous in resisting plunderers.

‘A husband goes and does not return:’—he separates himself
from his comrades.

‘A wife is pregnant, but will not nourish her child:’—she has
failed in her (proper) course.

‘It might be advantageous in resisting plunderers:’—by acting
as here indicated men would preserve one another.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows the geese gradually advanced
to the trees. They may light on the flat branches. There will be no
error.

‘They may light on the flat branches: — there is docility (in the
line) going on to flexible penetration.

2 Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows the geese gradually advanced
to the high mound. (It suggests the idea of) a wife who for three
years does not become pregnant; but in the end the natural issue
cannot be prevented. There will be good fortune.

‘In the end the natural issue cannot be prevented. There will be
good fortune’ — (the subject of the line) will get what he desires.

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows the geese gradually advanced
to the large heights (beyond). Their feathers can be used as orna-
ments. There will be good fortune.
268 CHIEN

“Their feathers can be used as ornaments. There will be good
fortune:’ — (the object and character of the subject of the line) can.
not be disturbed.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chien is ordinarily used in the sense of gradually; but there is connected
with that the idea also of progress or advance. The element of meaning in
the character is the symbol of water; and the whole of it denotes gradual
advance, like the soaking in of water. Three hexagrams contain in them the
idea of advance,— Chin (35), Sheng (46), and this Chien; but each has its
peculiarity of meaning, and that of Chien is the gradual manner in which
the advance takes place. The subject then of the hexagram is the advance of
men to offices in the state, how it should take place gradually and by suc-
cessive steps, as well as on certain other conditions that may be gathered
from the Text. P. Regis gives this exposition of the subject, as taken by him
from the ‘symbolism, which he ascribes to Confucius: —‘Viri probi, seu
republica digni, in virtutis soliditate instituendi sunt a sapiente, bonisque
regulis ut altis radicibus firmandi, nec alii ad rempublicam tractandam
promovendi, nisi qui paulatim per varios minoresque gradus ad magnum
hoc regimen periculo facto ascendere digni sint.” He then illustrates this
sentiment by the words of Pliny: — ‘Eligetur multis experimentis eruditus,
et qui futura possit ex praeteritis praevidere.’

But how does the lineal figure give the idea of a gradual advance? We
shall see how it is attempted in the Great Symbolism to get this from the
component trigrams. The account there is not satisfactory; and still less so
is what else I have been able to find on the subject. E.g., the trigrams were
originally K'un and Chien; but the third line of K’'un and the first of Chien
have changed places; and the trigrams now denote ‘the youngest son,’ and
‘the eldest daughter.’ If all this, which is a mere farrago, were admitted, it
would not help us to the idea of an advance.

Again, the lines 2, 3, 4, 5 are all in the places proper to them as strong
or weak; we ascend by them as by regular steps to the top of the hexagram;
and this, it is said, gives the notion of the gradual steps of the advance. But
neither does this carry conviction with it to the mind. We must leave the
question. King Wen, for reasons which we cannot discover, or without such
reasons, determined that the hexagram Chien should denote the gradual

advance of men to positions of influence and office.

The marriage of a young lady is mentioned in the [Judgment] as an illus-
tration of an important event taking place with various preliminary steps,
continued from its initiation to its consummation. But all must be done in
an orderly and correct manner. And so must it be with the rise of a man in
the service of the state.

The goose from the most ancient times played an important part in the
marriage ceremonies of the Chinese; and this may have suggested the use
of it in the symbolism of the different lines. Its habits as a bird of passage,
and flying in processional order, admirably suited the writer’s purpose. In
paragraph 1 it appears for the first time in the season approaching the
CHIEN 269

shore. Then comes the real subject of the line; and the facts of its being
weak, and without a proper correlate, agree with, if they do not suggest,
what is said about him, and the caution added.

The geese have advanced in line 2, and so has the officer, though he is
not mentioned. The line is weak or humble, and central, and has a proper
correlate in 5. Hence comes the good auspice.

Line 3 is strong, and has passed the central place, to the top of the lower
trigram, and has not a proper correlate in 6. Its subject is likely to be violent
and at the same time unsuccessful in his movements. He is like a husband
who does not care for his wife, or a wife who does not care for her child.
But in the case supposed, his strength in the end would be useful.

The web-footed goose is not suited for taking hold on the branches; but
on flat branches it can rest. Line 4, weak, but in an even place, does not
promise a good auspice for its subject; but it is the first line in the trigram
of humility; and it is concluded that he will not fall into error.

Line § is a strong line in the ruler’s seat; and yet it appears here as the
symbol of a wife. Somehow its subject has been at variance with, and kept
in disgrace by, calumniating enemies such as the plunderers of paragraph
3; but things come right in the end. The wife, childless for three years, be-
comes at last a mother; and there is good fortune.

The subject of line 6 has reached the top of the hexagram. There is no
more advance for him; and he has no correlate. But he may still do some
work for the state, and verify the auspice derived from the ornamental
plumes of the geese.

On the Commentary

The first sentence of paragraph 2 describes the lines from 2 to 5 all
getting into their proper places, as has been pointed out on the Text, and
that sentence is symbolical of what is said in the second. ‘The rectification
of the country’ is the reality of ‘the successful progress.’

‘The strong undivided line’ in paragraph 3 is the fifth of the figure.

Out of rest comes movement to go on for an indefinite time, and be suc-
ceeded by rest again; —as says paragraph 4.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The K’ang-hsi editors, to bring out the suitability of the Great Sym-
bolism and its application, say: —‘A tree springing up on the ground is a
tree as it begins to grow. A tree on a hill is high and large. Every tree when
t begins to grow, shows its branches and twigs gradually becoming long.
Every morning and every evening show some difference; and when the
tree is high and great, whether it be of an ordinary or extraordinary size,
It has taken years to reach its dimensions. This illustrates the difference
between the advance in Sheng (46) and that in Chien. Then the main-
tenance of extraordinary virtue in the application and the improvement
of manners is a gradual process. The improvement of the manners, more-
over, flows from the maintenance of the extraordinary virtue; which im-
plies also a gradual operation and progress.’

[Line] 1. The danger is the result of circumstances; the small officer has
not brought it on himself.
270 CHiey

[Line] 2. Only the geese appear in this paragraph; but the writer is think.
ing of the advancing officer. I cannot but think that in the language and
sentiment also there is an echo of the Shih Ching, I, ix, ode 6.

The ‘separation from his comrades’ has respect to line 3 not finding its
correlate in 6. ‘The wife's failing in her proper course’ has respect to the
line being undivided and not in the centre.

Ch’eng-tzu says, on [line] 4, that humility and right-doing will find rest
and peace in all places and circumstances.

[Line} 5. “The natural issue cannot be prevented:’— the wife will have a
child; minister and ruler will meet happily.

[Linej 6. See on the Text. But it is difficult to see the aptness of the sym-
bolism.
KuEl MEI 271

22

— = 54
— — KUEI MEI
—— The Marrying Maiden (Propriety)

Component Trigrams

— —— Above: Chen—thunder, movement, perilousness

——— Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

JUDGMENT

Kuei Mei indicates that (under the conditions which it denotes)
action will be evil, and in no wise advantageous.

COMMENTARY

By Kuei Mei (the marrying away of a younger sister) the great
and righteous relation between heaven and earth (is suggested to
us). If heaven and earth were to have no intercommunication,
things would not grow and flourish as they do. The marriage of a
younger sister is the end (of her maidenhood) and the beginning
(of her motherhood).

We have (in the hexagram the desire of) pleasure and, on the
ground of that, movement following. The marrying away is of a
younger sister.

‘Any action will be evil:’— the places (of the lines) are not those
appropriate to them.

‘It will be in no wise advantageous:’— the weak (third and fifth
lines) are mounted on strong lines.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] (the waters of) a marsh and over it that for
thunder form Kuei Mei. The superior man, in accordance with
this, having regard to the far-distant end, knows the mischief
(that may be done at the beginning).
272 Kur ME;

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows the younger sister married off
in a position ancillary to the real wife. (It suggests the idea of) a
person lame on one leg who yet manages to tramp along. Going
forward will be fortunate.

‘The younger sister is married off in a position ancillary to that
of the real wife:’—it is the constant practice (for such a case).

‘Lame on one leg, she is able to tramp along:’—she can render
helpful service. .

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows her blind of one eye, and yet
able to see. There will be advantage in her maintaining the firm
correctness of a solitary widow.

“There will be advantage in maintaining the firm correctness
of a solitary widow: —(the subject of the line) has not changed from
the constancy (proper to a wife).

® Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows the younger sister who was to
be married off in a mean position. She returns and accepts an
ancillary position.

“The younger sister who was to be married off is in a mean posi-
tion: — this is shown by the improprieties (indicated in the line).

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows the younger sister who is to
be married off protracting the time. She may be late in being mar-
ried, but the time will come.

(The purpose in) ‘protracting the time’ is that, after waiting, the
thing may be done (all the better).

© Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, reminds us of the marrying of the younger
sister of (king) Ti-yi, when the sleeves of her the princess were not
equal to those of the (still) younger sister who accompanied her in
an inferior capacity. (The case suggests the thought of) the moon
almost full. There will be good fortune.

“The sleeves of the younger sister of (king) Ti-yi, when she was
married away, were not equal to those of her (half-)sister, who ac-
companied her:’—such was her noble character, indicated by the
central position of the line.
KuEl MEI 273

o Six at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows the young lady bearing the bas-
ket, but without anything in it, and the gentleman slaughtering
the sheep, but without blood flowing from it. There will be no
advantage in any way.

“(What is said in) the sixth line, divided, about there being noth-
ing in the basket’ shows that the subject of it is carrying an empty
basket. ‘

LEGGE’S NOTES

Mei Kuei is a common way of saying that a young lady is married, or,
literally, ‘is going home.’ If the order of the characters be reversed, the
verb kuei will be transitive, and the phrase will signify ‘the marrying away
of a daughter,’ or ‘the giving the young lady in marriage.’ In the name of
this hexagram, Kuei is used with this transitive force. But Mei means ‘a
younger sister, and not merely a young lady or a daughter. Kuei Mei might
be equivalent to our ‘giving in marriage;” but we shall find that the special
term has a special appropriateness. The [Judgment] makes the hexagram
give a bad auspice concerning its subject; and for this the following reasons
are given: — According to Wen’s symbolism of the trigrams, Tui, the lower
trigram here, denotes the youngest daughter, and Chen, the upper trigram,
the oldest son. And as the action of the hexagram begins with that of the
lower trigram, we have in the figure two violations of propriety. First, the
marriage represented is initiated by the lady and her friends. She goes to
her future home instead of the bridegroom coming to fetch her. Second,
the parties are unequally matched. There ought not to be such disparity
of age between them. Another reason assigned for the bad auspice is that
lines 2, 3, 4, and 5 are all in places not suited to them, quite different from
the corresponding lines in the preceding hexagram.

Is then such a marriage as the above, or marriage in general, the theme
of the hexagram? I think not. The marriage comes in, as in the preceding
essay, by way of illustration. With all the abuses belonging to it as an
institution of his country, as will immediately appear, the writer acknowl-
edged it without saying a word in deprecation or correction of those abuses;
but from the case he selected he wanted to set forth some principles which
should obtain in the relation between a ruler and his ministers. This view
is insisted on in Wan Ching’s ‘New Collection of Comments on the / (a.p.
1686).

A feudal prince was said to marry nine ladies at once. The principal of
them was the bride who was to be the proper wife, and she was attended
by two others, virgins from her father’s harem; a cousin, and a half-sister,
a daughter of her father by another mother of inferior rank. Under line 1
the younger sister of the hexagram appears in the inferior position of this
half-sister. But the line is strong, indicative in a female of firm virtue. The
mean condition and its duties are to be deplored, and give the auspice of
274 Kuri Mr

lameness; but notwithstanding, the secondary wife will in a measure dis.
charge her service. There will be good fortune. Notwithstanding apparent
disadvantages, an able officer may do his ruler good service.

Line 2 is strong, and in the centre. The proper correlate is 5, which,
however, is weak, and in the place of a strong line. With such a correlate,
the able lady in 2 cannot do much in the discharge of her proper work. But
if she think only of her husband, like the widow who will die rather than
marry again, such devotion will have its effect and its reward. Though
blind of one eye, she yet manages to see. And so devoted loyalty in an
officer will compensate for many disadvantages.

Line 3 is weak, where it should be strong; and the attribute of pleased
satisfaction belonging to Tui culminates in its subject. She turns out to
be of so mean a character and such a slave of passion that no one will marry
her. She returns and accepts the position of a concubine.

Line 4 is strong, where it should be weak; but in the case of a female the
indication is not bad. The subject of the line, however, is in no haste. She
waits, and the good time will come.

King Ti-i has been already mentioned under the fifth line of hexagram
11, and in connexion with some regulation which he made about the mar-
riage of daughters of the royal house. His sister here is honourably men-
tioned, so as to suggest that the adorning which she preferred was ‘the
ornament of the hidden man of the heart.’ The comparison of her to ‘the
moon almost full’ I am ready to hail as an instance where the duke of Chou
is for once poetical. Ch’eng-tzu, however, did not see poetry, but a symbol
in it. ‘The moon is not full,’ he says, ‘but only nearly full. A wife ought not
to eclipse her husband!’ However, the sister of Ti-i gets happily married,
as she deserved to do, being represented by the line in the place of honour,
having its proper correlate in 2.

Line 6 is weak, at the top of the hexagram, and without a proper corre-
late. Hence its auspice is evil. The marriage-contract is broken, according
to Chu Hsi, and does not take effect. The parties mentioned in the para-
graph appear engaged in the temple, offering or sacrificing to the spirits
of their ancestors. But the woman's basket which should contain her offer-
ings (The Shih, I, ii, ode 4) is empty, and the man attempts to perform his
part in slaying the victim (The Shih, II, vi, ode 6. 5) without effect.

On the Commentary

1. Kuei Mei in [the Commentary] has the meaning simply of marriage,
and for Mei we might substitute Nii, ‘daughter’ or ‘young lady.’ This ap-
pears from the writer’s going on to point out, as elsewhere, the analogy
between the growth of things in nature from the interaction of heaven and
earth and the increase of mankind through marriage. He does this with
a delicate touch. There is no grossness in the original any more than there
is in the translation.

But how are we to reconcile this reference to the action of heaven and
earth with the bad auspice of the [Judgment]? The K’ang-hsi editors felt
the pressure of this difficulty, and they adduce a similar inconsistency in
the account of hexagram 44 in this treatise, adding, ‘From this we may say
that the interaction of the yin and yang cannot be dispensed with, but that
Kugel MEI 275

we ought to be careful about it in the beginning in order to prevent mis-
chief in the end. This is the doctrine of the I This is very well, but it is
no solution of the difficulty. The editors could not admit that the author
of the [Commentary] did not understand or did not deal fairly with the
Text; for that author, they thought, was Confucius.

2. The same editors say that paragraph 2 implies both that the desire
for the marriage originated with the lady, and that she was aware that the
gentleman was older than herself.

3. The position of a divided line above an undivided is always repre-
sented as an evil omen; it is difficult to understand why. There is less of an
appearance of reason about it than in some other things which are said
about the lines. The lines are where they cannot but be from the way in
which the figures were formed.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Thunder rolling above is supposed to produce movement in the waters
of the marsh below. The combination of this symbolism in Kuei Mei is
recognised as an evil omen in the case which the name denotes. The appli-
cation of it is not inappropriate.

[Line] 1. ‘It is the constant practice (for such a case)’ seems to mean that
an ancillary wife has no right to the disposition of herself, but must do what
she is told. Thus it is that the mean position of the younger sister does not
interfere with the service she can render.

The addition to the Text of ‘the purpose’ in [line] 4 is to show that the
putting marriage off is on the part of the lady and not on the other side.
276 Feng
Z.

“55
FENG
Abundance, Prosperity

Component Trigrams

Above: Chen —thunder, movement, perilousness

i

. Below: Li— fire, brightness, beauty

JUDGMENT

Feng intimates progress and development. When a king has
reached the point (which the name denotes) there is no occasion
to be anxious (through fear of a change). Let him be as the sun at
noon.

COMMENTARY

Feng has the signification of being great. It is made up of the
trigrams (representing) intelligence and movement directed by
that intelligence. It is thus that it has that signification.

‘The king has reached the condition (denoted by Feng): —
has still to make it greater.

“There is no occasion to be anxious. Let him be as the sun at
noon: —it is for him to cause his light to shine on all under the sky.

When the sun has reached the meridian height, it begins to de-
cline. When the moon has become full, it begins to wane. The
(interaction of) heaven and earth is now vigorous and abundant,
now dull and scanty, growing and diminishing according to the
seasons. How much more must it be so with (the operations of)
men! How much more also with the spiritual agency!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] thunder and lightning combine to form Feng.
The superior man, in accordance with this, decides cases of liti-
gation, and apportions punishments with exactness,
FENG 277

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first line, undivided, shows its subject meeting with his
mate. Though they are both of the same character, there will be
no.error. Advance will call forth approval.

“Though they are both of the same character, there will be no
error’ —if the subject of this line seek to overpass that similarity,
there will be calamity.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject surrounded by
screens so large and thick that at midday he can see from them the
constellation of the Bushel. If he go (and try to enlighten his ruler
who is thus emblemed), he will make himself to be viewed with
suspicion and dislike. Let him cherish his feeling of sincere devo-
tion that he may thereby move (his ruler’s mind), and there will
be good fortune.

‘Let him cherish his feeling of sincere devotion, that it shall ap-
pear being put forth:’ —it is by sincerity that the mind is affected.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows its subject with an (additional)
screen of a large and thick banner, through which at midday he
can see (the small) Mei star. (In the darkness) he breaks his right
arm; but there will be no error.

‘There is an (additional) screen of a large and thick banner’ —
great things should not be attempted (in such circumstances).

‘He breaks his right arm:’—in the end he will not be fit to be
employed.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject in a tent so large
and thick that at midday he can see from it the constellation of the
Bushel. But he meets with the subject of the (first) line, undivided
like himself. There will be good fortune.

‘He is surrounded by a screen large and thick: —the position
of the line is inappropriate.

‘At midday he sees the constellation of the Bushel:’—there is
darkness and no light.

‘He meets with the subject of the line, undivided like himself.
There will be good fortune:’ — action may be taken.

OSix in the fifth place:
The fifth line, divided, shows its subject bringing around him
278 Feng

the men of brilliant ability. There will be occasion for congratu.
lation and praise. There will be good fortune.

“The good fortune indicated by the fifth line, divided, is the
congratulation (that is sure to arise).

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject with his house
made large, but only serving as a screen to his household. When
he looks at his door, it is still, and there is nobody about it. For
three years no one is to be seen. There will be evil.

‘He has made his house large:’—he soars (in his pride) to the
heavens.

‘He looks at his door, which is still, with no one about it.’ —he
(only) keeps himself withdrawn from all others.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The character Feng is the symbol of being large and abundant, and, as
the name of this hexagram, denotes a condition of abundant prosperity. In
the changes of human affairs a condition of prosperity has often given place
to one of an opposite character. The lesson of the hexagram is to show to
rulers how they may preserve the prosperity of their state and people. The
component trigrams have the attributes of intelligence and of motive force,
and the second is under the direction of the first. A ruler with these attri-
butes is not likely to fail in maintaining his crown and prosperity, and it
may well be said that the figure intimates progress and development. The
king is told not to be anxious, but to study how he may always be like the
sun in his meridian height, cheering and enlightening all.

The explanation of the [Judgment] is thus natural and easy. It will be
found that a change is introduced in explaining the symbolism of the lines,
which it is as well to point out here. Thus far we have found that to con-
stitute a proper correlation between two lines, one of them must be whole,
and the other divided. Here two undivided lines make a correlation. The
law, evidently made for the occasion, goes far to upset altogether the doc-
trine of correlated lines. I have been surprised that the rules about the
lines stated in [Legge’s] Introduction, have held good so often. There have
been various deviations from them, but none so gross as that in this hexa-

ram.
8 Line 1 is strong, and in an odd place. Its correlate is 4, which would in
other figures be deemed unfortunate. But here even the Text calls 4 (for
the reference must be to it) the mate of 1, and makes their belonging to
different categories of no account. The lesson taught is that mutual help-
fulness is the great instrument for the maintenance of prosperity. The sub-
ject of line 1 is encouraged to go forward.

Line 2 is divided, and in its proper place. Occupying the centre of the
trigram of brightness, the intelligence of it should be concentrated in its
FENG 279

subject; but his correlate is the weak §, weak and in an improper place, so
that he becomes the benighted ruler, and darkness is shed from him down
on 2, which is strangely symbolised. The subject of 2 therefore, if he ad-
vance, will not be acceptable to his ruler, and will not be employed. The
only way in which he can be useful by developing the light that is in him
js pointed out in the conclusion. The constellation of the Bushel cor-
responds to our Ursa Major, or perhaps part of Sagittarius.

Line 3 is strong, in its proper place. It is the last line moreover of the
wrigram of Brightness. All these conditions are favourable to the employ-
ment of its subject; but its correlate is the weak 6, which is at the extremity
of the trigram of movement. There is no more power therefore in 6, and
the subject of 3 has no one to co-operate with him. His symbolism and aus-
pice are worse than those of 2; but his own proper goodness and capacity
will save him from error. Mei is a small star in or near the Bushel.

The symbolism of line 4 is the same as that of 2, till we come to the last
sentence. Then there is the strange correlation of the two strong lines in
4and 1; and the issue is good.

The subject of line 5 is in the ruler’s place, himself weak, but ‘the lord’
of the trigram of movement. He can do little unhelped, but if he can bring
into the work and employ in his service the talents of 1, 3, and 4, and even
of 2, his correlate, the results will be admirable. Nothing consolidates the
prosperity of a country so much as the co-operation of the ruler and able
ministers. .

All the conditions of line 6 are unfavourable, and its subject is left to
himself without any helpers. He is isolated for long, and undone. The issue
is only evil.

On the Commentary

The K’ang-hsi editors remark that paragraph 1 is not so much explaining
the meaning of the name Feng, as accounting for the hexagram, composed
of Li and Chen, having such a meaning.

Paragraph 3 seems rather contrary to the lesson of the hexagram. Ac-
cording to it, prosperity cannot be maintained, any more than we can have
the other seasons without winter or perpetual day without night; but the
object of the essay is to exhort to the maintenance of prosperity. Is it the
case that the rise of every commonwealth and cause must be followed by
its decay and fall? The mind refuses to admit the changes of the seasons,
&c, as a true analogy for all moral and intellectual movements. See an
Important remark on the concluding sentence in [Legge’s] Introduction.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Lightning appears here as the natural phenomenon of which Li is the
Symbol. The virtues attributed to the two trigrams are certainly required
In the application of them which is subjoined; but that application has
little or nothing to do with the explanation of the hexagram supplied by
the Text. :
280 Feng

I hardly understand the conclusion of paragraph 1. My translation of it
is according to the view of Chu Hsi, if I rightly understand that.

[Line] 2. It is by such sincerity that the mind is affected, — that is, the
mind of the ruler occupying line 5.

Line 3 has a correlate in 6, which is weak, and as it were out of the game,
The light in 3 moreover is hidden. Hence the symbolism; and through the
blindness of its subject his hurt, which unfits him to be employed.

The line undivided like 4 is 1; perhaps we might translate — ‘He meets
with the subject of the parallel line.’

No one but himself has any confidence in the subject of line 6. He holds
himself aloof from others, and they leave him to himself.
281

— — 56

2%

— Traveling Stranger

— —

|

Component Trigrams

Above: Li— fire, brightness, beauty

il]

Below: Ken -- mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Li intimates that (in the condition which it denotes) there may
be some little attainment and progress. If the stranger or traveller
be firm and correct as he ought to be, there will be good fortune.

COMMENTARY

Lu indicates that there may be some small attainment and prog-
ress’ —the weak (line) occupies the central place in the outer
(trigram), and is obedient to the strong (lines on either side of it).
(We have also the attributes of quiet) resting closely attached to
intelligence (in the component trigrams). Hence it is said, “There
may be some small attainment and progress. If the stranger or
traveller be firm and correct as he ought to be, there will be good
fortune.’

Great is the time and great is the right course to be taken as
intimated in Lii!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a mountain and above it that for fire form Li.
The superior man, in accordance with this, exerts his wisdom and
Caution in the use of punishments and not allowing litigations to
Continue.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows the stranger mean and meanly
Occupied. It is thus that he brings on himself (further) calamity.
282 Li

‘The stranger is mean and meanly occupied:’—his aim is: be.
come of the lowest character, and calamity will ensue.

Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, shows the stranger, occupying his
lodging-house, carrying with him his’ means of livelihood, and
provided with good and trusty servants.

‘He is provided with good and trusty servants:’—he will in the
end have nothing of which to complain.

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, shows the stranger, burning his
lodging-house, and having lost his servants. However firm and
correct he (try to) be, he will be in peril.

‘The stranger burns his lodging-house:’—and he himself also
suffers hurt thereby. When, as a stranger, he treats those below
him (as the line indicates), the right relation between him and them
is lost.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows the traveller in a resting-place,
having (also) the means of livelihood and the axe, (but still saying),
‘lam not at ease in my mind.’

‘The stranger is in a resting-place:’—but he has not got his
proper position.

‘He has the means of livelihood, and the axe:’— but his mind is
not at ease.

0 Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject shooting a pheasant. He
will lose his arrow, but in the end he will obtain praise and a (high)
charge.

‘In the end he will obtain praise and a (high) charge:’—he has
reached a high place

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, suggests the idea of a bird burning
its nest. The stranger, (thus represented), first laughs and then cries
out. He has lost his ox(-like docility) too readily and easily. There
will be evil.

‘Considering that the stranger is here at the very height (of
distinction), with the spirit that possesses him, itis right he (should
be emblemed by a bird) burning (its nest).

‘He loses his ox(-like docility) too readily and easily:’—to the
end he would not listen to (the truth about the course to be pur-
sued).
Lo 283

LEGGE'S NOTES

The name Lii denotes people travelling abroad, and is often translated
by ‘strangers.’ As early as the time of King Wen, there was a class of men
who went about from one state to another, pursuing their business as

edlars or travelling merchants; but in Mencius, II, i, chap. 5. 3, it is used
for travellers generally, whatever it was that took them out of their own
states. Confucius himself is adduced as a travelling stranger; and in this
hexagram King Wen is supposed to have addressed himself to the class of
such men, and told them how they ought to comport themselves. They
ought to cultivate two qualities, — those of humility and integrity (firm
correctness). By means of these they would escape harm, and would make
some little attainment and progress. Their rank was too low to speak of
great things in connexion with them. It is interesting to find travellers,
strangers in a strange land, having thus a place in the /.

For the manner in which the component trigrams are supposed to give
the idea that is in Lii, see [the Great Symbolism}. In [the Commentary]
there is an endeavour to explain the [Judgment] by means of the lines and
their relation to one another.

Line 1 is weak, in an odd place, and at the very bottom or commence-
ment of the hexagram. These conditions are supposed to account for the
unfavourable symbolism and auspice.

Line 2 is weak, but in its proper place. That place, moreover, is the cen-

tral. Hence the traveller —and he might here very well be a travelling mer-
chant—is represented in the symbolism as provided with everything he
can require; and though the auspice is not mentioned, we must understand
itas being good.
~ Line 3 is strong, and in an even place. But it occupies the topmost place
in the lower trigram; and its strength may be expected to appear as vio-
lence. So it does in the symbolism, and extraordinary violence as well. It
seems unreasonable to suppose, as in the conclusion, that one so described
could be in any way correct. The K’ang-hsi editors remark that the subjects
of 2 and 3 are represented as having ‘lodging-houses,” and not any of those
of the other lines, because these are the only two lines in the places proper
to them!
_ Line 4 is strong, but in an even place. Hence its subject has not ‘a lodg-
Ing-house;” but has found a situation where he has shelter, though he is
exposed to perils. Hence he is represented as having an axe, which may be
available for defence. Still he is not at peace in his mind. The K'ang-hsi
editors observe well that the mention of an axe makes us think of caution
35a quality desirable in a traveller.

Line 5, though weak, is in the centre of the upper trigram, which has the
Quality of brightness and elegance. It is held to be the lord of the trigram
Li; and lines 4 and 6 are on either side in loyal duty to defend and help.
Then the shooting a pheasant is supposed to be suggested; an elegant bird,
~by the trigram of elegance. When an officer was travelling abroad in
ancient times, his gift of introduction at any feudal court was a pheasant.

he traveller here emblemed is praised by his attached friends, and exalted
284 Li

to a place of dignity by the ruler to whom he is acceptable. It will be seen
how the idea of the fifth line being the ruler’s seat is dropt here as being
alien from the idea of the hexagram, so arbitrary is the interpretation of
the symbolism.

Line 6 is strong, in an even place, at the extremity of Li and of the whole
hexagram. Its subject will be arrogant and violent, the opposite of what a
traveller should be; and the issue will be evil. The symbolism must be
allowed to be extravagant. What bird ever burned its nest? And the char-
acter for ‘ox’ is strangely used for ‘ox-like docility.’

On the Commentary

What is said in paragraph | is intended to explain the [Judgment], and
not to account for the meaning of the name Lii. It is assumed that Li
means a stranger; and the writer from the position of the fifth line, and
from the attributes of the component trigrams, derives the ideas of humil-
ity, docility, a quiet restfulness, and intelligence as the characteristics
proper to a stranger, and which are likely to lead to his attaining what he
desires, and then advancing.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Different attempts are made to bring the idea of a travelling stranger
out of the trigrams Ken and Li; but none of them is satisfactory. Let K’ung
Ying-ta’s view serve as a specimen of them:—‘A fire on a mountain lays
hold of the grass, and runs with it over the whole space, not stopping any-
where long, and soon disappearing; — such is the emblem of the traveller.’
The application may be. derived well enough from the attributes of the
trigrams; but does not fit in with the lessons of the [Judgment] and Hsiang.

The meanness of the subject of line | does not arise from the nature of
his occupation; but from his mind and aim being emptied of all that is
good and ennobling.

Strong and trusty servants are the most important condition for the
comfort and progress of the traveller; and therefore it alone is resumed and
expanded.

THe subject of line 3 treats those below him with violence and arro-
gance, which of course alienates them from him.

‘He has not got into his proper position’ seems to say no more than that
4 is a strong line in an even place.

It is difficult to say what ‘he has reached a high place’ means. The fifth
line is not in this hexagram the ruler’s seat; but by his qualities and gifts
the subject of it attracts the attention and regard of his friends and of his
ruler.

The spirit that possesses the subject of line 6 is one of haughty arrogance,
with which the humility that ought to characterise. him cannot co-exist.
His careless self-sufficiency has shut his mind against all lessons of wisdom.
285

wn
<
2

57

3
SUN

Gentle Penetration

hl

Component Trigrams

Above: Sun— wind, gentle, wood, penetration

111]

Below: Sun— wind, gentle, wood, penetration

JUDGMENT

Sun intimates that (under the conditions which it denotes) there
will be some little attainment and progress. There will be advan-
tage in movement onward in whatever direction. It will be ad-
vantageous (also) to see the great man.

COMMENTARY

The double Sun shows how, in accordance with it, (govern-
mental) orders are reiterated.

(We see that) the strong (fifth line) has penetrated into the cen-
tra] and correct place, and the will (of its subject) is being carried
mto effect; (we see also) the weak (first and fourth lines) both obe-
dient to the strong lines (above them). It is hence said, “There will
be some little attainment and progress. There will be advantage
In movement onward in whatever direction. It will be advan-
tageous also to see the great man.’

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] wind, following each other, form Sun. The
Superior man, in accordance with this, reiterates his orders, and
Secures the practice of his affairs.

THE LINES

Six in the first place: ]
he first line, divided, shows its subject (now) advancing, (now)
286 Sy)

   
  
 
 
   

receding. It would be advantageous for him to have the firm cg
rectness of a brave soldier. }
(Now) he advances, (now) he recedes’ — his mind is perplexed,
‘It would be advantageous for him to have the firmness of
brave soldier.” — his mind would in that case be well governed.

Nine in the second place:
The second line, undivided, shows the representative of Sy
beneath a couch, and employing diviners and exorcists in a wa
bordering on confusion. There will be good fortune and no error.’
‘The good fortune springing from what borders on confusion
is due to the position (of the line) in the centre.

Nine in the third place:
The third line, undivided, shows its subject penetrating (only
by violent and repeated efforts. There will be occasion for regret.
“The regret arising from the violent and repeated efforts to pen,
trate’ shows the exhaustion of the will,

Sux in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows all occasion for repentance (in
its subject) passed away. He takes game for its threefold use in
his hunting.

‘He takes game in his hunting, enough for the threefold use of
it?’ — he achieves merit.

Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows that with firm correctnes
there will be good fortune (to its subject). All occasion for reper
tance will disappear, and all his movements will be advantageous
There may have been no (good) beginning, but there will be 2
(good) end. Three days before making any changes, (let him give
notice of them); and three days after, (let him reconsider them)
There will (thus) be good fortune. }

“The good fortune of (the subject of) the fifth line, undivided,
is owing to its correct position and its being in the centre. '

Nine at the top:

The sixth line, undivided, shows the representative of pent
tration beneath a couch, and having lost the axe with which he
executed his decisions. However firm and correct he may (try ©
be, there will be evil.

“The representative of penetration is beneath a couch?’ — though
occupying the topmost place, his powers are exhausted. ,

‘He has lost the axe with which he executed his decisions: ~
though he try to be correct, there will be evil.
Gon 287

LEGGE'S NOTES

with Sun as the fifth of the Fu-hsi trigrams we have become familiar.
It symbolises both wind and wood; and has the attributes of flexibility
(nearly allied to docility) and penetration. In this hexagram we are to think
of it as representing wind with its penetrating power, finding its way into
every corner and cranny.

Confucius once said (Analects 12. 19): — “The relation between superiors
and inferiors is like that between the wind and the grass. The grass must
bend when the wind blows upon it.’ In accordance with this, the subject
of the hexagram must be understood as the influence and orders of govern-
ment designed to remedy what is wrong in the people. The ‘Daily Lecture’
says that the upper trigram denotes the orders issuing from the ruler, and
the lower the obedience rendered to them by the people; but this view is
hardly borne out by the Text.

But how is it that the figure represents merely ‘some little attainment?’
This is generally explained by taking the first line of the trigram as indi-
cating what the subject of it can do. But over the weak first line are two
strong lines, so that its subject can accomplish but little. The K'ang-hsi
editors, rejecting this view, contend that, the idea of the whole figure being
penetration, line 1, the symbol of weakness and what is bad, will not be
able to offer much resistance to the subjects of the other lines, which will
enter and dispel its influence. They illustrate this from processes of nature,
education, and politics; the effect they say is described as small, because
the process is not to revolutionise or renew, but only to correct and im-
prove. Such as it is, however, it requires the operation of the strong and
virtuous, ‘the great man.’ Even all this criticism is not entirely satisfactory.

Line I is weak, where it should be strong. The movements of its subject
are expressive of perplexity. He wants vigour and decision.

Line 2 is strong, and in the right place, and has a good auspice. Things
are placed or hidden beneath a couch or bed; and the subject of the line
appears as searching for them. He calls in divination to assist his judgment,
and exorcists to expel for him what is bad. The work is great and difficult,
50 that he appears almost distracted by it; but the issue is good. For this
Successful explanation of the line, I am indebted to the K’ang-hsi editors.
The writer of the Text believed of course in divination and exorcism;
whicl was his misfortune rather than his fault or folly.

Line 3 is in the right place for a strong line. But its position at the top of
the lower trigram is supposed to indicate the restlessness, and here the
vehemence, of its subject. And 6 is no proper correlate. All the striving is
effective, and there is occasion for regret.

_ Line 4 is weak, as is its correlate in 1. But 4 is a proper place for a weak

line, and it rests under the shadow of the strong and central 5. Hence the

Omens of evil are counteracted, and a good auspice is obtained. The game

Caught in hunting was divided into three portions: — the first for use in sac-

Nfices; the second for the entertainment of visitors; and the third for the

kitchen generally. A hunt which yielded enough for all these purposes was
Cemed very successful.
288 Su

On line 5 Ch’eng-tzu says: —‘It is the seat of honour, and the place fo
the lord of Sun, from whom there issue all charges and commands. It id
central and correct; we must find in its subject the qualities denoted by!
Sun in their greatest excellence. But those qualities are docility and ac-
cordance with what is right; and the advantage of firm correctness is in-
sisted on. With this all will be right.’ With the concluding sentence com-
pare the conclusion of the [Judgment] of hexagram 18.

The evil] that paragraph 6 concludes with would arise from the quality
of Sun being carried to excess. I have followed the K’ang-hsi editors in
adopting a change of one character in the received Text.

On the Commentary

1. The language of this paragraph has often occurred to me in reading
commands and addresses issued by the emperors of China, such as the
essays on the precepts in what is called the Sacred Edict, the reiteration
employed in many of which is remarkable.

Paragraph 2. The ‘obedience of the weak lines to the strong ones’ grows,
in a way not very perceptible, from the idea of the hexagram, and the qual-
ity of the trigram as denoting penetration and flexibility.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

I have said on the [Judgment] that some commentators make the upper
trigram symbolical of the ordinances of the ruler and the lower symbolical
of the obedience of the people. E. g., Ch’eng-tzu says: —‘Superiors, in har-
mony with the duty of inferiors, issue their commands; inferiors, in har-
mony with the wishes of their superiors, follow them. Above and below
there are that harmony and deference; and this is the significance of the
redoubled Sun. When governmental commands and business are in accord-
ance with what is right, they agree with the tendencies of the minds of the
people who follow them,’

[Line] 2 seems to say that the sincerity of purpose indicated by the cen-
tral position of the second line conducts its subject to the right course,
despite the many considerations that might distract him.

‘The will is exhausted’ in [line] 3 intimates that ‘the repeated efforts’
made by its subject have exhausted him. He can now only regret his
failures.

What is said in [line] 6 proceeds on a different view of the Text from that
which I have followed.
Tur 289

— 58
—— TUl
Joy, Pleasure

 

Component Trigrams

Above: Tui —a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

Tui intimates that (under its conditions) there will be progress
and attainment. (But) it will be advantageous to be firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

Tui has the meaning of pleased satisfaction.

(We have) the strong (lines) in the centre, and the weak (lines)
on the outer edge (of the two trigrams), (indicating that) in plea-
sure what is most advantageous is the maintenance of firm correct-
ness. Through this there will be found an accordance with (the
will of) heaven, and a correspondence with (the feelings of) men.
When (such) pleasure goes before the people, (and leads them on),
they forget their toils; when it animates them in encountering
difficulties, they forget (the risk of) death. How great is (the power
of) this pleased satisfaction, stimulating in such a way the people!

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

(Two symbols representing) the waters of a marsh, one over the
other, form Tui. The superior man, in accordance with this,
(encourages) the conversation of friends and (the stimulus of ) their
(common) practice.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows the pleasure of (inward) har-
mony. There will be good fortune.
290 Ty

“The good fortune attached to the pleasure of (inward) harmony
arises from there being nothing in the conduct (of the subject of
the line) to awaken doubt.

© Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows the pleasure arising from
(inward) sincerity. There will be good fortune. Occasion for re.
pentance will disappear.

“The good fortune attached to the pleasure arising from (inward
sincerity)’ is due to the confidence felt in the object (of the sub-
ject of the line).

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject bringing round him-
self whatever can give pleasure. There will be evil.

‘The evil predicated of one’s bringing around himself what-
ever can give pleasure’ is shown by the inappropriateness of the
place (of the line).

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject deliberating about
what to seek his pleasure in, and not at rest. He borders on what
would be injurious but there will be cause for joy.

“The joy in connexion with (the subject of) the fourth line, un-
divided, is due to the happiness (which he will produce).

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject trusting in one who
would injure him. The situation is perilous.

‘He trusts in one who would injure him:’—his place is that
which is correct and appropriate.

® Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows the pleasure of its subject
in leading and attracting others.

‘The topmost line, divided, shows the pleasure (of its subject)
in leading and attracting others:’—his (virtue) is not yet brilliant.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The trigram Tui symbolises water as collected in a marsh or lake; and its
attribute or wirtus is pleasure or complacent satisfaction. It is a matter of
some difficulty to determine in one’s mind how this attribute came to be
connected with the trigram. The K’ang-hsi editors say: — ‘When the airs of
spring begin to blow, from the collections of water on the earth the moisten-
ing vapours rise up (and descend again); so, when the breath of health is
Tul 291
vigorous in a man’s person, the hue of it is displayed in his complexion.
Akin to this is the significance of the hexagram Tui representing a marsh,
a5 denoting pleasure. Although the yin lines give it its special character they
owe their power and effect to the yang; so when the qualities of mildness
and harmony prevail in a man, without true-heartedness and integrity to
control and direct them, they will fail to be correct, and may degenerate
into what is evil. Hence it is said that it will be advantageous to be firm and
correct!”

The feeling then of pleasure is the subject of this hexagram. The above
quotation sufficiently explains the concluding characters of the [Judgment];
but where is the intimation in Tui of progress and attainments? It is sup-
posed to be in the one weak line surmounting each trigram and supported
by the two strong lines. Fancy sees in that mildness and benignity ener-
gised by a double portion of strength.

Line 1, strong in the place of strength, with no proper correlate above,
is thus confined to itself. But its subject is sufficient for himself. There will
be good fortune.

Line 2, by the rule of place, should be weak, but it is strong. Without
any proper correlate, and contiguous to the weak 3, the subject of it might
be injuriously affected, and there would be cause for repentance. But the
sincerity natural in his central position counteracts all this.

The view of the third paragraph that appears in the translation is de-
rived from the K’ang-hsi editors. The evil threatened in it would be a con-
sequence of the excessive devotion of its subject to pleasure.

“The bordering on what is injurious’ in paragraph 4 has reference to the

contiguity of line 4 to the weak 3. That might have an injurious effect; but
the subject of 4 reflects and deliberates before he will yield to the seduc-
tion of pleasure, and there is cause for joy.
] The danger to the subject of line 5 is from the weak 6 above, in whom he
1s represented as ‘trusting’ Possibly his own strength and sincerity of
mind may be perverted into instruments of evil; but possibly, they may
operate beneficially.

The symbolism of paragraph 6 is akin to that of 3, though no positive
auspice is expressed. The subject of line 3 attracts others round itself for
the sake of pleasure; the subject of this leads them to follow himself in
quest of it.

On the Commentary

The feeling of pleasure going before the people and leading them on to
endure toil and encounter death must be supposed to be produced in them
by the example and lessons of their ruler. Lii Fau-hsien paraphrases this
Portion of the text thus: — ‘When the sage with this precedes them, he can
make them endure toil without any wish to decline it, and go with him into
difficulty and danger without their having any fear.’ I think this was in-
tended to be the teaching of the hexagram, but the positive expression of
1tis hardly discernible.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines
The application of the Great Symbolism here will recall to many readers
292 T|

   
  
  
 
   
  

the Hebrew maxims in Proverbs xxvii. 17, 19. The sentiment of it, hoy
ever, does not readily fit in to the teaching of the hexagram as set forth |
the Text.

There is nothing in the conduct of the subject of line 1 to awaken sy
picion. He has as yet taken no action; but it was not necessary to say any
thing like this about the subject of line 2, his central position being an a
surance that he would never do anything of doubtful character.

Line 3 should be strong, and the desire of pleasure which is the idea of
the hexagram leads its weak subject to the course which is so emphatically
condemned.

[Line] 5 is incomplete. Does the correctness and appropriateness of th
position of the subject of the line afford any explanation of his trusting the
subject of the weak line above, who would only injure him? It ought t
keep him on the contrary from doing so. The commentators have seen this
and say that the paragraph is intended by way of caution.

The action of the hexagram should culminate and end in line 5. But th
subject of it has not made brilliant attainment in the firmness and correct:
ness by which the love of pleasure should be controlled.
Huan 293

47N

59
HUAN
Dispersion

iit

Component Trigrams

Above: Sun—wind, gentle, wood, penetration

Below: K’an—water, a pit, danger
Pp 8

JUDGMENT

Huan intimates that (under its conditions) there will be progress
and success. The king goes to his ancestral temple; and it will be
advantageous to cross the great stream. It will be advantageous to
be firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

‘Huan intimates that there will be progress and success:’—(we
sce) the strong line (in the second place) of the lower trigram, and
not suffering any extinction there; and (also) the weak line oc-
cupying its place in the outer trigram, and uniting (its action) with
that of the line above.

‘The king goes to his ancestral temple:’—the king’s (mind) is
without any deflection.

‘It will be advantageous to cross the great stream:’ —(the subject
of the hexagram) rides in (a vessel of) wood (over water), and will
do so with success.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] water and that for wind moving above the water
form Huan. The ancient kings, in accordance with this, presented
offerings to God and established the ancestral temple.

THE LINES

Six at the beginning:
The first line, divided, shows its subject engaged in rescuing
294 Huyy,

(from the impending evil) and having (the assistance of) a strong
horse. There will be good fortune. }

“The good fortune attached to the first line, divided,’ is due to|
the natural course (pursued by its subject).

® Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject, amid the dis.
persion, hurrying to his contrivance (for security). All occasion
for repentance will disappear.

‘Amidst the prevailing dispersion, he hurries to his contrivance
(for security):’ —he gets what he desires.

Six in the third place:
The third line, divided, shows its subject discarding any regard
to his own person. There will be no occasion for repentance.
‘He has no regard to his own person:’—his aim is directed to
what is ‘external to himself.

© Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject scattering the (dif-
ferent) parties (in the state); which leads to great good fortune.
From the dispersion (he collects again good men standing out, a
crowd) like a mound, which is what ordinary men would not have
thought of.

‘He scatters the (different) parties (in the state), and there is
great good fortune:’ — brilliant and great (are his virtue and service).

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject amidst the disper-
sion issuing his great announcements as the perspiration (flows
from his body). He scatters abroad (also) the accumulations in the
royal granaries. There will be no error.

‘The accumulations of the royal (granaries) are dispersed, and
there is no error’ —this is due to the correctness of the position.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject disposing of
(what may be called) its bloody wounds, and going and separating
himself from its anxious fears. There will be no error.

‘His bloody wounds are gone:’—he is far removed from the
danger of injury.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Huan, the name of this hexagram, denotes a state of dissipation or dis-
persion. It is descriptive primarily of men’s minds alienated from what 15
HUAN 295
t and good. This alienation is sure to go on to disorder in the common-

igh
ng lth; and an attempt is made to show how it should be dealt with and

wealth
remedied. }
The figure is made up of one of the trigrams for water and over it that

for wind. Wind moving over water seems to disperse it, and awakes nat-
urally in the beholder the idea of dissipation.

The intimation of progress and success is supposed to be given by the
strong lines occupying the central places. The king goes to the ancestral
temple, there to meet with the spirits of his ancestors. His filial piety
moves them by the sincerity of its manifestation. Those spirits come and
are present. Let filial piety —in our language, let sincere religion —rule in
men’s minds, and there will be no alienation in them from what is right and
good or from one another. And if the state of the country demand a great
or hazardous enterprise, let it be undertaken. But whatever is done, must
be done with due attention to what is right, firmly and correctly.

Line 1, at the commencement of the hexagram, tells us that the evil has
not yet made great progress, and that dealing with it will be easy. But the
subject of the line is weak, and in an odd place. He cannot cope with the
evil himself. He must have help, and he finds that in a strong horse, which
description is understood to be symbolical of the subject of the strong
second line.

Line 2 is strong, but in an even place. That place is, indeed, the central,
but the attribute of the lower trigram Kan is peril. These conditions in-
dicate evil, and action will be dangerous; but the subject of 2 looks to 1
below him, and takes shelter in union with its subject. Since the com-
mentary of Ch’eng-tzu, this has been the interpretation of the line.

Line 3 is weak, and in an odd place. A regard for himself that would
unfit its subject for contributing any service to the work of the hexagram
might be feared; but he discards that regard, and will do nothing to be re-
pented of. There is a change of style in the Chinese text at this point. As
Wang Sheng-tzu (Yiian dynasty) says: — ‘Here and henceforth the scatter-
Ing is of what should be scattered, that what should not be scattered may
be collected.’

Line 4, though weak, is in its correct place, and adjoins the strong 5,
which is in the ruler’s seat. The subject of 4, therefore, will fitly represent
the minister, to whom it belongs to do a great part in remedying the evil
of dispersion. And this he does. He brings dissentient partizanship to an
end; and not satisfied with that, he collects multitudes of those who had
ei divided into a great body so that they stand out conspicuous like a

ill,

Line 5 gives us the action of the ruler himself; —by his proclamations,
and by his benevolence. Chu Hsi and other critics enlarge on the symbolism
of the perspiration, which they think much to the point. P. Regis avoids it,
translating — ‘Ile, magnas leges dissipans, facit ut penetrent(ur?).” Canon

cClatchie has an ingenious and original, so far as my Chinese reading
goes, note upon it: — ‘As sweat cures fevers, so do proclamations cure rebel-
lions” Both of these translators miss the meaning of the other instance of
the king’s work.

Line 6 is occupied by a strong line, which has a proper correlate in 3;
296 Hu,,

but 3 at the top of the trigram of peril. The subject of 6 hurries aw,
from association with the subject of it, but does so in the spirit of the hex,
gram, so that there is no error or blame attaching to him. -

On the Commentary

I. This paragraph has been partially anticipated in the notes on ti
[Judgment]. The second line is said to suffer ‘no extinction,” because th
lower trigram is that of peril. The K’ang-hsi editors say that the forme
part of this paragraph shows how the root of the work of the hexagram;
strengthened, and the latter part how the execution of that work is secured

The conclusion of paragraph 2 is, literally, ‘The king indeed is in the
middle.’ This does not mean, as some say, that the king is in the middle of
the temple, but that his mind or heart is exactly set on the central truth of
what is right and good.

The upper trigram Sun represents both wind and wood. To explain the
meaning of Huan, the significance of wind is taken; the writer here seizes
on that of wood, as furnishing materials for a boat in which the great stream
can be. crossed.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The ‘in accordance with this’ must be equivalent to—‘to remedy the
state of things thus symbolised.” What follows certainly amounts to this,
that the ancient kings considered the services of religion, sincerely and
earnestly attended to, as calculated to counteract the tendency to mutual
alienation and selfishness in the minds of men. How they operated to have
this beneficial effect we are not told. Nor is it easy to account for the ex-
tension of what is said in the Text about the establishment of the ancestral
temple to the presentation also of offerings to God. Probably the writer had
the same idea in his mind as in the Great Symbolism of hexagram 16, q. v.

“The natural course’ pursued by the subject of line 1 is, probably, that
required by the time.

What the subject of line 2 ‘desired’ would be his success in counteracting
the prevailing tendency to disunion.

The view given of {line] § is that propounded by Chu Hsi.

For [line] 6 see the note on line 6 under the Text.
CHIEH 297

1
— Regulation (Restraining)
Component Trigrams

Above: K’an— water, a pit, danger

Below: Tui—a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

 

JUDGMENT

Chieh intimates that (under its conditions) there will be progress
and attainment. (But) if the regulations (which it prescribes) be
severe and difficult, they cannot be permanent.

COMMENTARY

‘Chieh intimates progress and attainment:’—the strong and
weak (lines) are equally divided, and the strong lines occupy the
central places.

‘If the regulations (which Chieh prescribes) be severe and dif-
ficult, they cannot be permanent’ —its course (of actiori) will in
that case come to an end.

(We have the feeling of) pleasure and satisfaction directing the
course amidst peril. (We have) all regulations controlled (by au-
thority) in its proper place. (We have) free action proceeding from
the central and correct position.

Heaven and earth observe their regular terms, and we have the
four seasons complete. (If rulers) frame their measures according
to (the due) regulations, the resources (of the state) suffer no in-
Jury, and the people receive no hurt.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a lake, and above it that for water, form Chich.

he superior man, in accordance with this, constructs his (methods
of) numbering and measurement, and discusses (points of) virtue
and conduct.
298 CHirgy,

 

THE LINES

. |
Nine in the first place:
The first line, undivided, shows its subject not quitting the
courtyard outside his door. There will be no error.
‘He does not quit the courtyard outside his door:”—he knows
when he has free course and when he is obstructed.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject not quitting the
courtyard inside his gate. There will be evil.

‘He does not quit the courtyard inside his gate. There will be
evil’ —he loses the time (for action) to an extreme degree.

Six tn the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject with no appearance
of observing the (proper) regulations, in which case we shall see
him lamenting. But there will be no one to blame (but himself).

In ‘the lamentation for not observing the (proper) regulations,
who should there be to blame?

Six in the fourth place:
The fourth lie. divided, shows its subject quietly and naturally
(attentive to all) regulations. There will be progress and success.
“The progress and success of the quiet and natural (attention) to
all regulations’ is due to the deference which accepts the ways of
(the ruler) above.

© Nine in the fifth place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject sweetly and ac-
ceptably enacting his regulations. There will be good fortune. The
onward progress with them will afford ground for admiration.

‘The good fortune arising from the regulations enacted sweetly
and acceptably’ is due to (the line) occupying the place (of au-
thority) and being in the centre.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject enacting regula-
tions severe and difficult. Even with firmness and correctness there
will be evil. But though there will be cause for repentance, it will
(by and by) disappear.

“The regulations are severe and difficult. Even with firm correct-
ness there will be evil: — the course (indicated by the hexagram) i 1s
come to an end.
CHIEH 299

LEGGE’S NOTES

The primary application of the character Chieh was to denote the joints
of the bamboo; it is used also for the joints of the human frame; and for the
solar and other terms of the year. Whatever makes regular division may be
denominated a Chieh; there enter into it the ideas of regulating and re-
straining; and the subject of this hexagram is the regulations of govern-
ment enacted for the guidance and control of the people. How the con-
stituent trigrams are supposed to suggest or indicate this meaning [is
discussed in the Great Symbolism and in the notes on it below].

Chu Hsi anticipates that symbolism in trying to account for the state-
ment that the figure gives the promise of success and attainment; but the
ground of this is generally made out by referring to the equal division of
the undivided and divided lines and our having in 2 and 5, the central
places, two undivided lines. An important point concerning ‘regulations’ is
brought out in the conclusion of the [Judgment], —that they must be
adapted to circumstances, and not made too strict and severe.

Line 1 is strong, and in its correct place. Its subject therefore would not
be wanting in power to make his way. But he is supposed to be kept in
check by the strong 2, and the correlate 4 is the first line in the trigram of
peril. The course of wisdom therefore is to keep still. The character here
rendered ‘door’ is that belonging to the inner apartments, leading from the
hall into which entrance is found by the outer gate, mentioned under line 2.
The courtyard outside the door and that inside the gate is one and the
same. The ‘Daily Lecture’ says that the paragraph tells an officer not to
take office rashly, but to exercise a cautious judgment in his measures.

Line 2 is strong, in the wrong place; nor has it a proper correlate. Its
subject keeps still, when he ought to be up and doing. There will be evil.

Line 3 should be strong, but it is weak. It is neither central nor correct.
It has no proper correlate, and it is the topmost line in the trigram of com-
placent satisfaction. Its subject will not receive the yoke of regulations; and
he will find out his mistake, when it is too late.

i Line 4 is weak, as it ought to be, and its subject has respect to the author-
ity of the strong ruler in 5. Hence its good symbolism and auspice.

Line § is strong, and in its correct place. Its subject regulates himself,
having no correlate; but he is lord of the hexagram, and his influence is
everywhere beneficially felt.

Line 6 is weak, in its proper place. The subject of the topmost line must
be supposed to possess an exaggerated desire for enacting regulations.
They will be too severe, and the effect will be evil. But as Confucius
(Analects 3. 3) says, that is not so great a fault as to be easy and remiss. It
may be remedied, and cause for repentance will disappear.

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1. See what is said [above on the Judgment].

‘Its course will come to an end’ is the opposite of the intimation in Chieh
of progress and attainment.
300 CHigy

In paragraph 3 the writer returns to this intimation of the figure: by
the attributes of the trigrams; by the appropriate positions of lines 4 and §;
and by the central and correct place of 5.

Paragraph 4 illustrates the importance of doing things according to rule
by reference to the operations of nature and the enactments and instity.
tions of sage rulers.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Various explanations of the Great Symbolism have been attempted
E. g., Ch'eng-tzu says: — ‘The water which a lake or marsh will contain is
limited to a certain quantity. If the water flowing in exceed that, it over
flows. This gives us the idea of Chieh.” What is found on the application of
itis to my mind equally unsatisfactory.

The subject of line 1 knows when he might have free course and when
he is obstructed, and acts accordingly. He is regulated by a consideration
of the time.

"The subject of line I ought not to act, and he is still. The subject of line 2
ought to act, and he also is still. The error and the effect of it are great.

The subject of line 3 shows by his lamentation how he blames himself.

The other three [lines] are sufficiently explained in what is said [above].
cuunG Fu 301

— a]
— Z” CHUNG FU
Inmost Sincerity

 

———

Component Trigrams

 

Above: Sun— wind, gentle, wood, penetration

 

Below: Tui —a marsh, lake, pleased satisfaction

JUDGMENT

Chung Fu (moves even) pigs and fish, and leads to good fortune.
There will be advantage in crossing the great stream. There will
be advantage in being firm and correct.

COMMENTARY

In Chung Fu we have the (two) weak lines in the innermost
part (of the figure), and strong lines occupying the central places
(in the trigrams). (We have the attributes) of pleased satisfaction
and flexible penetration. Sincerity (thus symbolled) will trans-
form a country.

‘Pigs and fish (are moved), and there will be good fortune:’—
sincerity reaches to (and affects even) pigs and fishes.

“There will be advantage in crossing the great stream:”—(we see
in the figure) one riding on (the emblem of) wood, which forms an
empty boat.

In (the exercise of the virtue denoted by) Chung Fu, (it is said
that) ‘there will be advantage in being firm and correct’ —in that
virtue indeed we have the response (of man) to Heaven.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

_ [The symbol of] (the waters of) a marsh and that for wind above

it form Chung Fu. The superior man, in accordance with this,

deliberates about cases of litigation and delays (the infliction of)
eath.
302 CHunNG Fu

THE LINES

Nine in the first place

The first line, undivided, shows its subject resting (in himself).
There will be good fortune. If he sought to any other, he would
not find rest.

“The first line, undivided, shows its subject resting (in himself).
There will be good fortune:’—no change has yet come over his

purpose.

Nine in the second place:

The second line, undivided, shows its subject (like) the crane
crying out in her hidden retirement, and her young ones respond-
ing to her. (Itis as if it were said), ‘I have a cup of good spirits,’ (and
the response were), ‘I will partake of it with you.’

‘Her young ones respond to her:’— from the (common) wish of
the inmost heart.

© Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject having met with his
mate. Now he beats his drum, and now he leaves off. Now he
weeps, and now he sings.

‘Now he beats his drum, and now he leaves off’ —the position
(of the line) is the appropriate one for it.

® Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject (like) the moon
nearly full, and (like) a horse (in a chariot) whose fellow disap-
pears. There will be no error.

‘A horse the fellow of which disappears:’—he breaks from his
(former) companions, and mounts upwards.

O Nine in the fifth place:
The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject perfectly sincere,
and linking (others) to him in closest union. There will be no error.
‘He is perfectly sincere, and links others to him in closest union:’
—the place (of the line) is the correct and appropriate one.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject in chanticleer
(trying to) mount to heaven. Even with firm correctness there
will be evil.

‘Chanticleer (tries to) mount to heaven: —but how can (such an
effort) continue long?
cpune Fu 303

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chung Fu, the name of this hexagram, may be represented in English
by ‘Inmost Sincerity.” It denotes the highest quality of man, and gives its

ssessor power so that he prevails with spiritual beings, with other men,
and with the lower creatures. It is the subject of the ‘Doctrine of the Mean’
from the 21st chapter onwards, where Remusat rendered it by /a perfection,
la perfection morale, and Intorcetta and his coadjutors by vera solidague per-
wctio. The lineal figure has suggested to the Chinese commentators, from
the author of the [Commentary], two ideas in it which deserve to be pointed
out. There are two divided lines in the centre and two undivided below
them and above them. The divided lines in the centre are held to represent
the heart or mind free from all pre-occupation, without any consciousness
of self; and the undivided lines, on each side of it, in the centre of the con-
stituent trigrams are held to denote the solidity of the virtue of one so free
from selfishness. There is no unreality in it, not a single flaw.

The ‘Daily Lecture’ at the conclusion of its paraphrase of the [Judg-
ment] refers to the history of the ancient Shun, and the wonderful achieve-
ments of his virtue. The authors give no instance of the affecting of ‘pigs
and fishes’ by sincerity, and say that these names are symbolical of men,
the rudest and most unsusceptible of being acted on. The Text says that
the man thus gifted with sincerity will succeed in the most difficult enter-
prises. Remarkable is the concluding sentence that he must be firm and
correct. Here, as elsewhere throughout the /, there comes out the, practical
character which has distinguished the Chinese people and their best teach-
ing all along the line of history.

The translation of paragraph 1 is according to the view approved by the
K’ang-hsi editors. The ordinary view makes the other to whom the sub-
ject of line 1 looks or might look to be the subject of 4; but they contend
that, excepting in the case of 3 and 6, the force of correlation should be dis-
carded from the study of this hexagram; for the virtue of sincerity is all
centred in itself, thence derived and thereby powerful.

For paragraph 2, see [“The Great Treanse,” in Part IV] Section i, 42.
Itis in rhyme, and I have there rendered it in rhyme. The ‘young ones of
the crane’ are represented by line 1. In the third and fourth sentences we
have the symbolism of two men brought together by their sympathy in
virtue. The subject of the paragraph is the effect of sincerity.

The ‘mate’ of line 3 is 6. The principle of correlation comes in. Sincerity,
not left to itself, is influenced from without, and hence come the changes
and uncertainty in the state and moods of the subject of the line.

Line 4 is weak, and in its correct place. The subject of it has discarded
the correlate in 1, and hastens on to the confidence of the ruler in §, being
symbolised as the moon nearly full. The other symbol of the horse whose
fellow has disappeared has reference to the discarding of the subject of 1.
Anciently chariots and carriages were drawn by four horses, two outsides
and two insides. Lines I and 4 were a pair of these; but 1 disappears here
from the team, and 4 goes on and joins 5.
304 CHUNG Fy

Line 5 is strong and central, in the ruler’s place. Its subject must be the
sage on the throne, whose sincerity will go forth and bind all in union with
himself. :

Line 6 should be divided, but is undivided; and coming after 5, what
can the subject of it do? His efforts will be ineffectual, and injurious to
himself. He is symbolised by a cock — literally, ‘the plumaged voice.” But a
cock is not fitted to fly high, and in attempting to do so will only suffer
hurt.

On the Commentary

1. The structure of the lineal figure which is here insisted on has been
pointed out in explaining the [Judgment]. On what is further said as to the
attributes of the trigrams and their effect, Ch’eng-tzu observes: — ‘We have
in the sincerity shown in the upper trigram superiors condescending to
those below them in accordance with their peculiarities, and we have in
that of the lower those below delighted to follow their superiors. The com-
bination of these two things leads to the transformation of the country and
state.’

Paragraph 2. The two divided lines in the middle of the figure are sup-
posed to give the semblance of an empty boat, and an empty boat, it is
said (with doubtful truth), is not liable to be upset. The trigram Sun
symbolises both wind and wood.

A good commentary on paragraph 3 is supplied in many passages of ‘the
Doctrine of the Mean,” e.g. chap. 20.18: — ‘Sincerity is the way of Heaven.
The attainment of sincerity is the way of men.’

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

Dissatisfied with previous attempts to explain the Great Symbolism,
the K’ang-hsi editors say: —‘The wind penetrates things. The grass and
trees of the level ground are shaken and tossed by it; the rocky valleys and
caverns in their sides have it blowing round about them; and it acts also on
the depths of the collected waters, the cold of which disappears and the ice
is melted before it. This is what makes it the emblem of that perfect sin-
cerity which penetrates everywhere. The litigations of the people are like
the deep and dark places of the earth. The kings examine with discrimin-
ation into all secret matters connected with them, even those which are
here mentioned, till there is nothing that is not penetrated by their perfect
sincerity.” But all this is greatly strained. The symbolism of the eight tri-
grams gets pretty well played out in the course of the 64 hexagrams.

1. ‘No change has come over the purpose:’—the sincerity, that is, per-
fect in itself and of itself, continues.

2. One bond of loving regard unites the mother bird and her young; so
answers the heart of man to man.
Hsia0 Kuo 305

«Jv 39

— 62
— HSIAO KUO
— — Small Excesses

Component Trigrams

— —

— — Above: Chen — thunder, movement, perilousness

——

— =— Below: Ken— mountain, arresting progress

JUDGMENT

Hsiao Kuo indicates that (in the circumstances which it implies)
there will be progress and attainment. But it will be advantageous
to be firm and correct. (What the name denotes) may be done in
small affairs, but not in great affairs. (It is like) the notes that come
down from a bird on the wing; —to descend is better than to as-
cend. There will (in this way) be great good fortune.

COMMENTARY

In Hsiao Kuo (we see) the small (lines) exceeding the others, and
(giving the intimation of ) progress and attainment.

Such ‘exceeding, in order to its being advantageous, must be
associated with firmness and correctness:’ —that 1s, it must take
place (only) according to (the requirements of) the time.

The weak (lines) are in the central places, and hence (it is said
that what the name denotes) may be done in small affairs, and
there will be good fortune.

Of the strong (lines) one is not in its proper place, and (the
Other) is not central, hence it is said that (what the name denotes)
should not be done in great affairs.’

(In the hexagram) we have ‘the symbol of a bird on the wing,
and of the notes that come down from such a bird, for which it is

Ctter to descend than to ascend, thereby leading to great good
Ortune:’ —to ascend is contrary to what is reasonable in the case,
While to descend is natural and right.
306 / Hsiao Ky

  
    
  
 

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] a hill and that for thunder above it form Hsia!
Kuo. The superior man, in accordance with this, in his condug|
exceeds in humility, in mourning exceeds in sorrow, and in his ey
penditure exceeds in economy.

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, suggests (the idea of) a bird flying, (andh
ascending) till the issue is evil.
‘There is a bird flying (and ascending) till the result is evil:’-
nothing can be done to avoid this issue.

0 Six in, the second place:

The second line, divided, shows its subject passing by his
grandfather, and meeting with his grandmother; not attempting
anything against his ruler, but meeting him as his minister. There
will be no error.

‘He does not attempt to reach his ruler:’—a minister should not
overpass the distance (between his ruler and himself).

Nine in the third place: ;

The third line, undivided, shows its subject taking no extra
ordinary precautions against danger; and some in consequence
finding opportunity to assail and injure him. There will be evil.

‘Some in consequence find opportunity to assail and injure him.
There will be evil:’ — how great will it be!

Nine in the fourth place: ;

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject falling into no
error, but meeting (the exigency of his situation), without exceed:
ing (in his natural course). If he go forward, there will be peril, and
he must be cautious. There is no occasion to be using firmness
perpetually.

‘He meets the exigency (of his situation), without exceeding (the
proper course):’—(he does so), the position being inappropriate (for
a strong line).

‘If he go forward, there will be peril, and he must be cautious: —
the result would be that his course would not be long pursued.

© Six in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, (suggests the idea) of dense clouds, but
no rain, coming from our borders in the west. It also (shows) the
prince shooting his arrow, and taking the bird in a cave.
SIAO Kuo 307

   
  
  
   
  
  

«There are dense clouds, but no rain:”—(the line) is in too high a
Jace.

ix at the top:

The sixth line, divided, shows its subject not meeting (the
xigency of his situation), and exceeding (his proper course). (It
uggests the idea of) a bird flying far aloft. There will be evil. The
ase is what is called one of calamity and self-produced injury.

‘He does not meet the exigency (of his situation), and exceeds
his proper course):’ —(the position indicates) the habit of domi-
eering.

EGGE’S NOTES

The name Hsiao Kuo is explained both by reference to the lines of the
exagram, and to the meaning of the characters. The explanation from the
ines appears immediately on comparing them with those of Ta Kuo, the
8th hexagram. There the first and sixth lines are divided, and between
re four undivided lines; here the third and fourth lines are undivided, and
utside each of them are two divided lines. The undivided or yang lines
are great, the divided or yin lines are called small. In Hsiao Kuo the di-
vided or small lines predominate. But this peculiar structure of the figure
could be of no interest to the student, if it were not for the meaning of the
mame, which is ‘small excesses’ or ‘exceeding in what is small.” The author,
accepted by us as King Wen, had in his mind our distinction of essentials
and non-essentials. Is it ever good to deviate from what is recognised as
the established course of procedure? The reply is—never in the matter of
fight; but in what is conventional and ceremonial —in what is non-essential
~the deviation may be made, and will be productive of good. The form
may be given up, but not the substance. But the thing must be done very
carefully, — humbly and reverently, and in small matters.

The symbolism of the bird is rather obscure. The whole of it is intended
to teach humility. It is better for the bird to descend, keeping near to where
* can perch and rest, than to hold on ascending into the homeless regions
of the air.

Line 1 is weak, in an odd place, and possessed by the ‘idea of exceeding,’
which belongs to the hexagram. Its correlate is the strong 4, belonging to
trigram Chen, the attribute of which is movement. There is nothing to

Press the tendency of 1; rather it is stimulated; and hence the symbolism.

ine 2 is weak, but in its proper place, and in the centre. Its correlate is
» Which is also a weak line. The lines 3 and 4 between them are both
wg and are supposed to represent the father and grandfather of the
- Jct of 2; but he or she goes past them, and meets with the grandmother
- Again, § is the rulers seat. The subject of 2 moves on to him, but not
0 enemy; but humbly and loyally, as his minister according to the
ous of a weak line in the central place. It must be allowed that this
of the symbolism and its interpretation is obscure and strained.
¢ he subject of line 3 is too confident in his own strength, and too defiant
© weak and small enemies that seek his hurt.

at,
308 Hsiao Kug

On the Commentary

Paragraph 1. That the small lines exceed the others appears at a glance,
The intimation of progress and attainment is less clear. Compare the first
paragraph {of the Commentary on] hexagram 33.

“The requirements of the time’ in paragraph 2 cannot make right wrong
or wrong right; but they may modify the conventional course to be taken
in any particular case.

It is easy to explain paragraphs 3 and 4, but what is said in them carries
no conviction to the mind.

The sentiment of paragraph 5 is good, apart from the symbolism, which
is only perplexing.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

The K'ang-hsi editors endeavour to show the appropriateness of the
Great Symbolism in this way: — ‘When thunder issues from the earth, the
sound of it comes with a rush and is loud; but when it reaches the top of a
hill it has begun to die away and is small.’ There is nothing in the Chinese
about the hills being high; and readers will only smile at the attempted ex-
planation. The application of the symbolism, or rather of the idea of the
hexagram, is good, and in entire accordance with what I have stated that
idea to be.

Nothing can be done to avoid the issue mentioned in [line] 1, for the
subject of the line brings it on himself.

[Line] 2 deals only with the symbolism in the conclusion of what is
stated under line 2. The writer takes the view which I have given [above].

For [lines] 3 and 4 see the notes [above].

In line 5 the yin line is too high. If the line were yang, the auspice would
be different.
Cui CHi 309

FX, 7 %

—_— 63
—_—_— CHI CHI
— — Completion

Component Trigrams
grams

Above: K'an— water, a pit, danger

Below: Li fire, brightness, beauty

 

JUDGMENT

Chi Chi intimates progress and success in small matters. There
will be advantage in being firm and correct. There has been good
fortune in the beginning; there may be disorder in the end.

COMMENTARY

‘Chi Chi intimates progress and success: —in small matters,
that is, there will be that progress and success.

“There will be advantage in being firm and correct:”— the strong
and weak (lines) are correctly arranged, each in its appropriate
place.

‘There has been good fortune in the beginning’ —the weak
(second line) is in the centre. i

‘In the end’ there is a cessation (of effort), and ‘disorder arises:’ —
the course (that led to rule and order) is (now) exhausted.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] fire and that for water above it form Chi Chi.
The superior man, in accordance with this, thinks of evil (that may
come), and beforehand guards against it.

THE LINES

Nine in the first place:

The first lind undivided, (shows its subject as a driver) who
drags back his wheel, (or as a fox) which has wet his tail. There
will be no error.
310 CHI CH

‘He drags back his wheel:’ —as we may rightly judge, there will
be no mistake.

0 Six in the second place:

The second line, divided, (shows its subject as) a wife who has
lost her (carriage-)screen. There is no occasion to go in pursuit of
it. In seven days she will find it.

‘In seven days she will find it’ —for the course pursued is that
indicated by the central position (of the line).

Nine in the third place:

The third line, undivided, (suggests the case of) Kao Tsung who
attacked the Demon region, but was three years in subduing it.
Small men should not be employed (in such enterprises).

‘He was three years in subduing it’ — enough to make him weary.

Six in the fourth place:

The fourth line, divided, shows its subject with rags provided
against any leak (in his boat), and on his guard all day long.

‘He is on his guard all the day:’— he is in doubt about something.

Nine in the Jib place:

The fifth line, undivided, shows its subject (as) the neighbour
in the east who slaughters an ox (for his sacrifice); but this is not
equal to the (small) spring sacrifice of the neighbour in the west,
whose sincerity receives the blessing.

“The slaughtering of an ox by the neighbour in the east is not
equal to (the small sacrifice of) the neighbour in the west:’—be-
cause the time (in the latter case is more important and fit).

‘His sincerity receives the blessing:’—good fortune comes on a
great scale.

Six at the top:

The topmost line, divided, shows its subject with (even) his
head immersed. The position is perilous.

‘His head is immersed; the position is perilous:’—how could
such a state continue long?

LEGGE’S NOTES

[The two characters identically transliterated Chi are actually different:
the first] is used as a symbol of being past or completed [, and the second}
denotes primarily crossing a stream, and has the secondary meaning of
helping and completing. The two characters, combined, will express the
successful accomplishment of whatever the writer has in his mind. In
dealing with this lineal figure, King Wen was thinking of the condition of
the kingdom, at length at rest and quiet. The vessel of the state has been
Cui Cui 311

brought safely across the great and dangerous stream. The distresses of
the kingdom have been relieved, and its disorders have been repressed.
Does anything remain to be done stillP Yes, in small things. The new
government has to be consolidated. Its ruler must, without noise or clamour,
go on to perfect what has been wrought, with firmness and correctness,
and ever keeping in mind the instability of all human affairs. That every
line of the hexagram is in its correct place, and has its proper correlate is
also supposed to harmonize with the intimation of progress and success.

Line 1, the first of the hexagram, represents the time immediately after
the successful achievement of the enterprise it denotes;—the time for
resting and being quiet. For a season, at least, all movement should be
hushed. Hence we have the symbolism of a driver trying to stop his car-
riage, and a fox who has wet his tail, and will not tempt the stream again.

Line 2 is weak, and in its proper place. It also has the strong correlate 5;
and might be expected to be forward to act. But it occupies its correct and
central place, and suggests the symbol of a lady whose carriage has lost its
screen. She will not advance further so soon after success has been achieved;
but keep herself hidden and retired. Let her not try to find the screen.
When it is said that she will find this ‘after seven days,’ the meaning seems
to be simply this, that the period of Chi Chi will then have been exhausted,
the six lines having been gone through, and a new period, when action will
be proper, shall have commenced.

The strong line 3, at the top of the lower trigram, suggests for its sub-
ject one undertaking a vigorous enterprise. The writer thinks of Kao Tsung,
the sacrificial title of Wu Ting, one of the ablest sovereigns of the Shang
dynasty (p.c. 1364-1324), who undertook an expedition against the bar-
barous hordes of the cold and bleak regions north of the Middle States. He
is mentioned again under the next hexagram. He appears also in the Shu,
IV, ix, and in the Shih, IV, iii, ode 5, His enterprise may have been good,
and successful, but it was tedious, and the paragraph concludes with a
caution.

Line 4 is weak, and has advanced into the trigram for water. Its subject
will be cautious, and prepare for evil, as in the symbolism, suggested
probably by the nature of the trigram.

‘The neighbour in the East’ is the subject of line 5, and ‘the neighbour
in the West’ is the subject of the correlate 2, the former quarter being
yang and the latter yin. Line 5 is strong, and 2 is weak; but weakness is
more likely to be patient and cautious than strength. They are compared
to two men sacrificing. The one presents valuable offerings; the other very
Poor ones. But the second excels in sincerity, and his small offering is the
More acceptable.

The topmost line is weak, and on the outmost edge of K’an, the trigram
of peril. His action is violent and perilous, like that one attempting to cross
a ford, and being plunged overhead into the water.

On the Commentary

For paragraphs 1 and 2, see the note on the [Judgment].

It is difficult to see the concatenation in paragraph 3 between the senti-
ment of the [Judgment] and the nature of the second line. The K’ang-hsi
312 Cur Cur

editors compare this hexagram and the next with | 1 and 12, observing that
the goodness of T’ai (11) is concentrated, as here, in the second line.

The sentiment of paragraph 4 is that which we have often met with, —
that things move on with a constant process of change. Disorder succeeds
to order, and again order to disorder.

On the Great Symbolism

Water and fire coming together as here, fire under the water, each ele-
ment occupies its proper place, and their interaction will be beneficial.
Such is the common explanation of the Great Symbolism; but the connex-
ion between it and the application of it, which also is good in itself, is by
no means clear.

The notes on the different lines present nothing that has not been dealt
with in the notes on the Text.
Wer CHI 313
64 ,
WEI CHI

Before Completion

TT

Component Trigrams

Above: Li—fire, brightness, beauty

Below: K’an — water, a pit, danger

i

JWDGMENT

Wei Chi intimates progress and success (in the circumstances
which it implies). (We see) a young fox that has nearly crossed
(the stream), when its tail gets immersed. There will be no ad-
vantage in any way.

COMMENTARY

‘Wei Chi intimates progress and success (in the circumstances
which it implies):’ —the weak (fifth) line is in the centre.

“The young fox has nearly crossed the stream:’— but he has not
yet escaped from the midst (of the danger and calamity).

‘Its tail gets immersed. There will be no advantage in any way:
~there is not at the end a continuance (of the purpose) at the be-
ginning. Although the places (of the different lines) are not those
appropriate to them, yet a strong (line) and a weak (line always)
respond to each other.

THE GREAT SYMBOLISM

[The symbol of] water and that for fire above it form Wei Chi.
The superior man, in accordance with this, carefully discriminates
among (the qualities of) things, and the (different) positions they
(naturally) occupy.
314 WEI

THE LINES

Six in the first place:
The first line, divided, shows its subject (like a fox) whose t;
gets immersed. There will be occasion for regret.
‘His tail gets immersed:’ — this is the very height of ignorance.

    
   
 
  

Nine in the second place:
The second line, undivided, shows its subject dragging back hy
(carriage-)wheel. With firmness and correctness there will be good
fortune.
“The second line, undivided, shows good fortune arising from
being firm and correct:’—it is in the central place, and the action
of its subject thereby becomes correct.

Six in the third place:

The third line, divided, shows its subject, with (the state of
things) not yet remedied, advancing on; which will lead to evil
But there will be advantage in (trying to) cross the great stream.

(The state of things is) not yet remedied. Advancing will lead
to evil" —the place (of the line) is not that appropriate for it.

Nine in the fourth place:

The fourth line, undivided, shows its subject by firm correct
ness obtaining good fortune, so that all occasion for repentance
disappears. Let him stir himself up, as if he were invading the
Demon region, where for three years rewards will come to him
(and his troops) from the great kingdom.

‘By firm correctness there is good fortune, and cause for re-
pentance disappears:’—the aim (of the subject of the line) is car
ried into effect.

oS8ix in the fifth place:

The fifth line, divided, shows its subject by firm correctness
obtaining good fortune, and having no occasion for repentance:
(We see in him) the brightness of a superior man, and the posses”
sion of sincerity. There will be good fortune.

(We see) the brightness of a superior man:’—the diffusion of
that brightness tends to good fortune.

Nine at the top:

The topmost line, undivided, shows its subject full of confi”
dence and therefore feasting (quietly). There will be no error. (a
he) cherish this confidence, till he (is like the fox who) gets his
head immersed, it will fail of what is right.
wer CHI 315

‘He drinks and gets his head immersed:’ — he does not know how
i submit to the (proper) regulations.

LEGGE'S NOTES

Wei Chi is the reverse of Chi Chi. The name tells us that the successful
accomplishment of whatever the writer had in his mind had not yet been
realised. The vessel of the state has not been brought across the great and
dangerous stream. Some have wished that the / might have concluded with
Chi Chi, and the last hexagram have left us with the picture of human
affairs all brought to good order. But this would not have been in harmony
with the idea of the I, as the book of change. Again and again it has been
pointed out that we find in it no idea of a perfect and abiding state. Just as
the seasons of the year change and pursue an ever-recurring round, so is it
with the phases of society. The reign of order has been, and has terminated;
and this hexagram calls us to see the struggle for its realisation recom-
menced. It treats of how those engaged in that struggle should conduct
themselves with a view to secure the happy consummation. :

How the figure sets forth the state of things by its constituent trigrams
[is discussed below in the notes on the Great Symbolism]. A similar in-
dication is supposed to be given by the lines, not one of which is in the cor-
rect place; the strong lines being all in even places, and the weak lines in
odd. At the same time each of them has a proper correlate; and so the
figure gives an intimation of some successful progress. See also {the Com-
mentary and notes on it below].

The symbolism of the young fox suggests a want of caution on the part
of those, in the time and condition denoted by the hexagram, who try to
remedy prevailing disorders. Their attempt is not successful, and they get
themselves into trouble and danger. Whatever can be done must be under-
taken in another way.

1 suppose a fox to be intended by the symbolism of line 1, bringing that
animal on from the [Judgment]. Some of the commentators understand it
of any animal. The line is weak, at the bottom of the trigram of peril, and
TeSponds to the strong 4, which is not in its correct place. Its subject at-
tempts to be doing, but finds cause to regret his course,
nd subject of line 2 strong, and in the centre, is able to repress himself,

eep back his carriage from advancing; and there is good fortune.
«id he K'ang-hsi editors say that it is very difficult to understand what is
Td der line 3; and many critics suppose that a negative has dropt out,
& at we should really read that ‘it will not be advantageous to try and
058 the great stream.’
endens 4, though strong, is in an even place; and this might vitiate the
vours of its subject to bring about a better state of things. But he is
B > And correct. He is in the fourth place moreover, and immediately
pre : there is his ruler, represented by a weak line, humble therefore, and
ong red to welcome his endeavours. Let him exert himself vigorously and
. h Ss Kao Tsung did in his famous expedition (see last hexagram, line 3),
€ will make progress and have success. Expeditions beyond the fron-
316 WEI

    
 
    
  
 
   

tiers in those days were not very remote. Intercourse was kept up betw
the army and the court. Rewards, distinctions, and whatever was neces
to encourage the army, were often sent to it.

Line § is weak, in an odd place. But its subject is the ruler, humble #
supported by the subject of the strong 2; and hence the auspice is w

ood.

The subject of line 6, when the work of the hexagram has been d
appears disposed to remain quiet in the confidence of his own power, I
enjoying himself; and thereby he will do right. If, on the contrary, he w
go on to exert his powers, and play with the peril of the situation, the iss
will be bad.

On the Commentary

The indication is derived from the fifth line, divided, which is in th
ruler’s place. It occupies a strong place, has for its correlate the strong!
and is itself in the centre of the yin trigram Li

Line 2 represents ‘the young fox.” A strong line in the midst of the tri
gram of peril, its subject will be restless; and responding to the ruler in §|
he will be forward and incautious in taking action. The issue will be evi,
and the latter end different from the beginning. What is said in the las
sentence shows further how Wei Chi indicates progress.

On the Great Symbolism and Lines

In this last hexagram we have water below and fire above, so that the
two cannot act on each other, and the Symbolism may represent the ur
regulated condition of general affairs, the different classes of society not
harmonising nor acting together. The application follows naturally.

Chu Hsi and others Suspect an error in the text of line] 1; yet a tolerabl
meaning comes from it as it stands.

The K’ang-hsi editors observe on [line] 2 that an undivided line in
the second place, and a divided line in the fifth place, are both incorrect
and yet it is often said of them that with firm correctness in their subjects
there will be good fortune; — such is the virtue of the central position. This
principle is at last clearly enunciated in this paragraph.

Ch’eng-tzu says: — “The subject of line 4 has the ability which the time
requires, and possesses also a firm solidity. He can carry out therefore his
purpose. There will be good fortune, and all cause for repentance will dis
appear. The smiting of the demon region was the highest example of fir
correctness.’

Both the symbols in [line] 6 indicate a want of caution, and an unwilF
ingness to submit one’s impulses to the regulation of reason and prudencé
LEGGE’S PREFACE AND
INTRODUCTION
1 Preface = \

[ wROTE OUT a translation of the / Ching, embracing both the Text
and the Appendixes, in 1854 and 1855; and have to acknowledge
that when the manuscript was completed, I knew very little about
the scope and method of the book. I laid the volumes containing
the result of my labour aside, and hoped, believed indeed, that the
light would by and by dawn and that I should one day get hold of a
clue that would guide me to a knowledge of the mysterious classic.

Before that day came, the translation was soaked, in 1870, for
more than a month in water of the Red Sea. By dint of careful
manipulation it was recovered se as to be still legible; but it was
not till 1874 that I began to be able to give to the book the pro-
longed attention necessary to make it reveal its secrets. Then for
the first time I got hold, as I believe, of the clue, and found that my
toil of twenty years before was of no service at all.

What had tended more than anything else to hide the nature of
the book from my earlier studies was the way in which, with the
Text, ordinarily and, as I think, correctly ascribed to King Wen
and his son Tan, ther€ are interspersed, under each hexagram, the
portions of the Appendixes I, II, and IV relating to it. [The present
edition puts most of this material back where Legge found it, for
the reasons explained in my Introduction. —R. V. O.] The student
a first thinks this an advantage. He believes that all the Appen-
dixes were written by Confucius, and combine with the Text to
form one harmonious work; and he is glad to have the sentiments
of ‘the three sages’ brought together. But I now perceived that the
®@mposition of the Text and of the Appendixes, allowing the Con-
fucian authorship of the latter, was separated by about 700 years,
and that their subject-matter was often incongruous. My first step
towards a right understanding of the / was to study the Text by it-
Self and as complete in itself. It was easy to do this because the im-
Perial edition of 1715, with all its critical apparatus, keeps the Text
and the Appendixes separate.

he wisdom of the course thus adopted became more apparent
by the formation of eight different concordances, one for the Text,
ad one for each of the Appendixes. They showed that many
: racters in the Appendixes, and those especially which most
godly occur to sinologists as characteristic of the /, are not to be
%und in the Text at all. A fuller acquaintance, moreover, with the
One and style of the Appendixes satisfied me that while we had

Gent evidence that the greater part of them was not from Con-
320 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

fucius, we had no evidence that any part was his, unless it might be
the paragraphs introduced by the compiler or compilers as sayings
of ‘the Master. ’

Studying the Text in the manner thus described, I soon arrived
at the view of the meaning and object of the /, which I have de-
scribed in the second chapter of the Introduction; and 1 was
delighted to find that there was a substantial agreement between
my interpretations of the hexagrams and their several lines and
those given by the most noted commentators from the Han dy-
nasty down to the present. They have not formulated the scheme
so concisely as I have done, and they were fettered by their belief
in the Confucian authorship of the Appendixes; but they held the
same general opinion, and were similarly controlled by it in con-
struing the Text. Any sinologist who will examine the Yii Chih Jih
Chiang 1 Ching Chieh 1, prepared by one of the departments of the
Han Lin college, and published in 1682, and which I have called
the ‘Daily Lessons,” or ‘Lectures,’ will see the agreement between
my views and those underlying its paraphrase.

After the clue to the meaning of the / was discovered, there re-
mained the difficulty of translating. The peculiarity of its style
makes it the most difficult of all the Confucian classics to present in
an intelligible version. I suppose that there are sinologists who will
continue, for a time at least, to maintain that it was intended by its
author or authors, whoever they were, merely as a book of divina-
tion; and of course the oracles of divination were designedly
wrapped up in mysterious phraseology. But notwithstanding the
account of the origin of the book and its composition by King Wen
and his son, which I have seen reason to adopt, they, its authors,
had to write after the manner of diviners. There is hardly another
work in the ancient literature of China that presents the same difh-
culties to the translator.

When I made my first translation of it in 1854, | endeavoured to
be as concise in my English as the original Chinese was. Much of
what I wrote was made up, in consequence, of so many English
words, with little or no mark of syntactical connexion. I followed
in this the example of P. Regis and his coadjutors in their Latin
version. But their version is all but unintelligible, and mine was
not less so. How to surmount this difficulty occurred to me after |
had found the clue to the interpretation; — in a fact which I had un-
consciously acted on in all my translations of other classics, namely,
that the written characters of the Chinese are not representations
of words, but symbols of ideas, and that the combination of them
in composition is not a representation of what the writer would
say, but of what he thinks. It is vain therefore for a translator to at-
1 PREFACE 321

tempt a literal version. When the symbolic characters have brought
his mind en rapport with that of his author, he is free to render the
ideas in his own or any other speech in the best manner that he
can attain to. This is the rule which Mencius followed in interpret-
ing the old poems of his country: — ‘We must try with our thoughts
to meet the scope of a sentence, and then we shall apprehend it.” In
the study of a Chinese clussical book there is not so much an inter-
pretation of the characters employed by the writer as a participa-
tion of his thoughts; —there is the seeing of mind to mind. The
canon hence derived for a translator is not one of license. It will be
his object to express the meaning of the original as exactly and con-
cisely as possible. But it will be necessary for him to introduce a
word or two now and then to indicate what the mind of the writer
supplied for itself. What I have done in this way will generally be
seen enclosed in parentheses, though I queried whether I might
not dispense with them, as there is nothing in the English version
which was not, I believe, present in the writer's thought. I hope,
however, that I have been able in this way to make the translation
intelligible to readers. If, after all, they shall conclude that in what
is said on the hexagrams there is often ‘much ado about nothing,’ it
is not the translator who should be deemed accountable for that,
but his original.

I had intended to append to the volume translations of certain
chapters from Chu Hsi and other writers of the Sung dynasty; but
this purpose could not be carried into effect for want of space. It
was found necessary to accompany the version with a running
commentary, illustrating the way in which the teachings of King
Wen and his son are supposed to be drawn from the figures and
their several lines; and my difficulty was to keep the single I within
‘the limits of one volume. Those intended translations therefore are
reserved for another opportunity; and indeed, the Sung philosophy
did not grow out of the / proper, but from the Appendixes to it,
and especially from the third of them. It is more Taoistic than Con-
fucian. [This Appendix, “The Great Treatise,” appears in Part IV
of the present edition. ~R.V.0/]

When 1 first took the / in hand, there existed no translation of it
in any western language but that of P. Regis and his coadjutors,
which I have mentioned above and in various places of the Intro-
duction. The authors were all sinologists of great attainments; and
their view of the Text as relating to the transactions between the
founders of the Chou dynasty and the last sovereign of the Shang
or Yin, and capable of being illustrated historically, though too
narrow, was an approximation to the truth. The late M. Mohl, who
had edited the work in 1834, said to me once, ‘I like it; for I come
322 LeEGGE’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIOY

to it out of a sea of mist, and find solid ground.” No sufficient dis
tinction was made in it, however, between the Text and the Appen.
dixes; and in discussing the third and following Appendixes the
translators were haunted by the name and shade of Confucius. Tg
the excessive literalness of the version I have referred above.

In 1876 the Rev. Canon McClatchie, M.A., published a version
at Shanghai with the title, ‘A Translation of the Confucian / Ching,
or the “Classic of Changes,” with Notes and Appendix.’ This em.
braces both the Text and the Appendixes, the first, second, and
fourth of the latter being interspersed along with the Text, as in
the ordinary school editions of the classic. So far as I can judge
from his language, he does not appear to be aware that the first and
second Appendixes were not the work of King Wen and the duke
of Chou, but of a subsequent writer he would say of Confucius —
explaining their explanations of the entire hexagrams and their
several lines. His own special object was ‘to open the mysteries of
the / by applying to it the key of Comparative Mythology.” Such a
key was not necessary; and the author, by the application of it, has
found sundry things to which I have occasionally referred in my
notes. They are not pleasant to look at or dwell upon; and happily
it has never entered into the minds of Chinese scholars to conceive
of them. I have followed Canon McClatchie’s translation from
paragraph to paragraph and from sentence to sentence, but found
nothing which I could employ with advantage in my own.

Long after my translation had been completed, and that of the
Text indeed was printed, I received from Shanghai the third vol-
ume of P. Angelo Zottoli’s ‘Cursus Litteraturae Sinicae,’ which
had appeared in 1880. About 100 pages of it are occupied with the
I. The Latin version is a great improvement on that in the work of
Regis; but P. Zottoli translates only the Text of the first two hexa-
grams, with the portions of the first, second, and fourth Appen-
dixes relating to them; and other six hexagrams with the explana-
tions of King Wen’s T'uan [that is, the Judgment in this edition]
and of the Great Symbolism. Of the remaining fifty-six hexagrams
only the briefest summary is given; and then follow the Appen-
dixes III, V, VI, and VII at length [all in Part IV in this edition].
The author has done his work well. His general view of the / is
stated in the following sentences: —‘Ex Fu-hsi figuris, Wen regis
definitionibus, Chou ducis "symbolis, et Confucii commentariis,
Liber conficitur, qui a mutationibus, quas duo elementa in hexa-
grammatum compositione inducunt, / (Mutator) vel / Ching (Muta-
tionum Liber) appellatur. Quid igitur tandem famosus iste / Ching?
Paucis accipe: ex linearum qua'itate continua vel intercisa; earum-
que situ, imo, medio, vel supremo; mutuaque ipsarum relati-
1 PREFACE 323

one, occursuy, dissidio, convenientia; ex ipso scilicet trigrammatum
corpore seu forma, tum ex trigrammatum symbolo seu imagine,
tum ex trigrammatum proprietate seu virtute, tum etiam aliquando
ex unius ad alterum hexagramma varietate, eruitur aliqua imago,
deducitur aliqua sententia, quoddam veluti oraculum continens,

uod sorte etiam consulere possis ad documentum obtinendum,
moderandae vitae solvendove dubio consentaneum. Ita liber juxta
Confucii explicationem in scholis tradi solitam. Nil igitur sublime
aut mysteriosum, nil foedum aut vile hic quaeras; argutulum potius
Jusum ibi video ad instructiones morales politicasque eliciendas, ut
ad satietatem usque in Sinicis passim classicis, obvias, planas, natu-
rales; tantum, cum liber iste, ut integrum legenti textum facile
patebit, ad sortilegii usum deductus fuerit, per ipsum jam summum
homo obtinebit vitae beneficium, arcanam cum spiritibus commu-
nicationem secretamque futurorum eventuum cognitionem; theur-
gus igitur visus est iste liber, totus lux, totus spiritus, hominisque
vitae accommodatissimus; indeque laudes a Confucio ei tributas,
prorsus exaggeratas, in hujus libri praesertim appendice videre
erit, si vere tamen, ut communis fert opinio, ipse sit hujus appendi-
cis auctor.’

There has been a report for two or three years of a new transla-
tion of the I, or at least of a part of it, as being in preparation by M.
Terrien de Lacouperie, and Professor R. K. Douglas of the British
Museum and King’s College, London. I have alluded in the Intro-
duction to some inaccurate statements about native commentaries
on the [ and translations of it by foreigners, made in connexion
with this contemplated version. But I did not know what the pro-
jected undertaking really was, till I read a letter from M. Terrien in
the ‘Athenaeum’ of the 21st January of this year. He there says that
the joint translation ‘deals only with the oldest part of the book, the
short lists of characters which follow each of the sixty-four head-
Ings, and leaves entirely aside the explanations and commentaries
attributed to Wen Wang, Chou Kung, Confucius, and others, from
1200 B.c. downwards, which are commonly embodied as an inte-
gral part of the classic; adding, “The proportion of the primitive
text to these additions is about one-sixth of the whole.” But if we
take away these explanations and commentaries attributed to King
Wen, the duke of Chou, and Confucius, we take away the whole I.

here remain only the linear figures attributed to Fu-hsi, without
any lists of characters, long or short, without a single written char-
acter of any kind whatever. The projectors have been misled some-
how about the contents of the J ; and unless they can overthrow all
the traditions and beliefs about them, whether Chinese or foreign,
their undertaking is more hopeless than the task laid on the chil-
324 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIq, !
aN

dren of Israel by Pharaoh, that they should make bricks withoy,
straw.

I do not express myself thus in any spirit of hostility. If, by dis.
coveries in Accadian or any other long-buried and forgotten lag,
guage, M. Terrien de Lacouperie can throw new light on the writ.
ten characters of China or on its speech, no one will rejoice more
than myself; but his ignorance of how the contents of the classi
are made up does not give much prospect of success in his prom.
ised translation.

In the preface to the third volume of these ‘Sacred Books of the
East,’ containing the Shu Ching, Shih Ching, and Hsiao Ching, 1
have spoken of the Chinese terms Ti and Shang Ti, and shown
how I felt it necessary to continue to render them by our word
God, as I had done in all my translations of the Chinese classics
since 1861. My doing so gave offence to some of the missionaries
in China and others; and in June, 1880, twenty-three gentlemen
addressed a letter to Professor F. Max Miiller, complaining that, in
such a work edited by him, he should allow me to give my own
private interpretation of the name or names in question instead of
translating them or transferring them. Professor Miiller published
the letter which he had received, with his reply to it, in the ‘Times’
newspaper of Dec. 30, 1880. Since then the matter has rested, and |
introduce it again here in this preface, because, though we do not
meet with the name in the / so frequently as in the Shu and Shih, I
have, as before, wherever it does occur, translated it by God. Those
who object to that term say that Shang Ti might be rendered by
‘Supreme Ruler’ or ‘Supreme Emperor,’ or by ‘Ruler (or Emperor)
on high; but when I examined the question, more than thirty
years ago, with all possible interest and all the resources at my
command, I came to the conclusions that Ti, on its first employ-
ment by the Chinese fathers, was intended to express the same
concept which our fathers expressed by God, and that such has
been its highest and proper application ever since. There would be
little if any difference in the meaning conveyed to readers by ‘Su-
preme Ruler’ and ‘God; but when I render Ti by God and Shang
Ti by the Supreme God, or, for the sake of brevity, simply by God,
I am translating, and not giving a private interpretation of my own.
I do it not in the interests of controversy, but as the simple expres-
sion of what to me is truth; and I am glad to know that a great ma-
jority of the Protestant missionaries in China use Ti and Shang Ti
as the nearest analogue for God.

It would be tedious to mention the many critical editions and
i PREFACE 325

ommentaries that I have used in preparing the translation. I have
© ot had the help of able native scholars, which saved time and was
ocherwise valuable when I was working in the East on other
classics. The want of this, however, has been more than compen-
sated in some respects by my copy of the ‘Daily Lectures on the I,’
the full title of which is given [earlier in the Preface]. The friend
who purchased it for me five years ago in Canton was obliged to
content himself with a second-hand copy; but I found that the pre-
vious owner had been a ripe scholar who freely used his pencil in
pursuing his studies. It was possible, from his punctuation, inter-
lineations, and many marginal notes, to follow the exercises of his
mind, patiently pursuing his search for the meaning of the most
difficult passages. I am under great obligations to him; and also to
the Chou I Cheh Chung, the great imperial edition of the present
dynasty, first published in 1715. I have generally spoken of its
authors as the K’ang-hsi editors. Their numerous discussions of
the meaning, and ingenious decisions, go far to raise the interpre-
tation of the / to a science.

J.L.
OxFoRrD,
16th March, 1882.
2 Introduction

Chapter I: The I Ching from the Twelfth Century B.C;
the Commencement of the Christian Era

  
  
   

1. Confucius is reported to have said on one occasion, ‘If son;
years were added to my life, I would give fifty to the study of tk
/, and might then escape falling into great errors?’ The utterance
is referred by the best critics to the closing period of Confucius
life, when he had returned from his long and painful wandering
among the States, and was settled again in his native Lu. By thi
time he was nearly seventy, and it seems strange, if he spoke seri.
ously, that he should have thought it possible for his life to be pro-
longed .[anJother fifty years. So far as that specification is con-
cerned, a corruption of the text is generally admitted. My reason
for adducing the passage has simply been to prove from it the ex-
istence of an J Ching in the time of Confucius. In the history of
him by Ssu-ma Ch’ien it is stated that, in the closing years of his
life, he became fond of the /, and wrote various appendixes to it,
that he read his copy of it so much that the leathern thongs (by
which the tablets containing it were bound together) were thrice
worn out, and that he said, ‘Give me several years (more), and |
should be master of the /2.’ The ancient books on which Confucius
had delighted to discourse with his disciples were those of His-
tory, Poetry, and Rites and Ceremonies*, but ere he passed away
from among them, his attention was much occupied also by the
/ as a monument of antiquity, which in the prime of his days he
had too much neglected.

2. Ch’ien says that Confucius wrote various appendixes to the
I, specifying all but two of the treatises, which go by the name of
‘the Ten Appendixes, and are, with hardly a dissentient voice,
attributed to the sage. They are published along with the older
Text, which is based on still older lineal figures, and are receive
by most Chinese readers, as well as by foreign Chinese scholars,
as an integral portion of the / Ching. The two portions should, how-
ever, be carefully distinguished. I will speak of them as the Text
and the Appendixes. [The reader should remember that two
Legge’s Appendixes —the first, constituting the Commentary, a”
the second, including the Great Symbolism and the comments 09
the duke of Chou’s explanations of the lines—are in this edition

1 Confucian Analects, VII, xvi.

2 The Historical Records; Life of Confucius, p. 12.
3 Analects, VII, xvii.
2 [NTRODUCTION 327

included under the individual hexagrams. Legge’s “Text” means
only the Judgment and the first part of the discussion of each in-
dividual line of the hexagrams. —R. V.O.] .

3, The / happily escaped the fires of Ch’in, which proved so
disastrous to most of the ancient literature of China in 213 B.c.
In the memorial which the premier Li Shih addressed to his sover-
eign, advising that the old books should be consigned to the flames,
an exception was made of those which treated of ‘medicine, divina-
tion, and husbandry’. The / was held to be a book of divination,
and so was preserved.

In the catalogue of works in the imperial library, prepared by
Liu Hsin about the beginning of our era, there is an enumeration
of those on the / and its Appendixes, — the books of thirteen differ-
ent authors or schools, comprehended in 294 portions of larger or
smaller dimensions*. I need not follow the history and study of the /
into the line of the centuries since the time of Liu Hsin. The imperial
K’ang-hsi edition of it, which appeared in 1715, contains quota-
tions from the commentaries of 218 scholars, covering, more or less
closely, the time from the second century B.c. to our seventeenth
century. I may venture to say that those 218 are hardly a tenth of
the men who have tried to interpret the remarkable book, and solve
the many problems to which it gives rise.

4. It may be assumed then that the J Ching, properly so called,
existed before Confucius, and has come down to us as correctly as
any other of the ancient books of China; and it might also be said,
as correctly as any of the old monuments of Hebrew, Sanskrit,
Greek, or Latin literature. The question arises of how far before
Confucius we can trace its existence. Of course an inquiry into this
point will not include the portions or appendixes attributed to the
Sage himself. Attention will be called to them by and by, when I
shall consider how far we are entitled, or whether we are at all
entitled, to ascribe them to him. J do not doubt, however, that they
belong to what may be called the Confucian period, and were pro-
duced some time after his death, probably between 450 and 350
8.c. By whomsoever they were written, they may be legitimately
employed in illustration of what were the prevailing views in that
age on various points connected with the /. Indeed, but for the
8uidance and hints derived from them as to the meaning of the
text, and the relation between its statements and the linear figures,
there would be great difficulty in making out any cansistent inter-
pr etation of it.

(i) The earliest mention of the classic is found in the Official

: Legge’s Chinesé Classics, f, prolegomena, pp. 6-9.
Books of the Farlier Han; History of Literature, pp. 1, 2.
328 LEGGE’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCTio,

Book of the Chou dynasty, where it is said that, among the dutie,

of ‘the Grand Diviner,’ ‘he had charge of the rules for the thre,

I (systems of Changes), called the Lien-shan, the Kuei-ts’ang, and the

I of Chou; that in each of them the regular (or primary) lineal fig

ures were 8, which were multiplied, in each, till they amounted t,

64. The date of the Official Book has not been exactly ascertaine

The above passage can hardly be reconciled with the opinion gj

the majority of Chinese critics that it was the work of the duke q
Chou, the consolidator and legislator of the dynasty so called; but
I think there must have been the groundwork of it at a very early

date. When that was composed or compiled, there was existing,
among the archives of the kingdom, under the charge of a high
officer, ‘the 7 of Chou, — what constitutes the Text of the present J.
the Text, that is, as distinguished from the Appendixes. There
were two other /, known as the Lien-shan and the Kuei-ts’ang. It
would be a waste of time to try to discover the meaning of these
designations. They are found in this and another passage of the
Official Book; and nowhere else. Not a single trace of what they
denoted remains, while we possess ‘the / of Chou’ complete.

(ii) In the Supplement of Tso ch’in-ming to ‘the Spring and
Autumn,’ there is abundant evidence that divination by the / was
frequent, throughout the states of China, before the time of Con-
fucius. There are at least eight narratives of such a practice, be-
tween the years B.c. 672 and 564, before he was born; and five
times during his life-time the divining stalks and the book were
had recourse to on occasions with which he had nothing to do. In
all these cases the text of the /, as we have it now, is freely quoted.
The ‘Spring and Autumn’ commences in B.c, 722. If it extended
back to the rise of the Chou dynasty, we should, no doubt, find
accounts of divination by the / interspersed over the long intef-
vening period. For centuries before Confucius appeared on the

1 See the Chou Kuan (or Li), Book XXIV, parr. 3, 4, and 27. Biot (Le Tcheou Li, vol. it, pp:
70, 71) translates the former two paragraphs thus:—‘I] (Le Grand Augure) est préposé aux trois
methodes pour les changements (des lignes divinatoires), La premiére est appelée [iaison des
montagnes (Lien-shan); la seconde, Retour et Conservation (Kuei-ts’ang); la troisitme, Change
ments des Chou. Pour toutes il y a huit lignes symboliques sacrées, et soixante-quatre combinaisons
de ces lignes.’

Some tell us that by Lien-shan was intended Fu-hsi, and by Kuei-ts'ang Huang Ti; others, that
the former was the / of the Hsia dynasty, and the latter that of Shang or Yin. A third set will hav
it that Lien-shan was a designation of Shen Nung, between Fu-hsi and Huang Ti. I should s4¥
myself, as many Chinese critics do say, that Lien-shan was an arrangement of the lineal symbols
in which the first figure was the present 52nd hexagram, Ken, consisting of the trigram represen™
ing mountains doubled; and that Kuei-ts’ang was an arrangement where the first figure was the
present 2nd hexagram, K’un, consisting of the trigram representing the earth doubled,—! i
reference to the disappearance and safe keeping of plants in the bosom of the earth in winter.
this, however, is only conjecture.

 
INTRODUCTION 329

stage of his country, the J was well known among the various
feudal states, which then constituted the Middle Kingdom!.

(iii) We may now look into one of the Appendixes for its tes-
timony to the age and authorship of the Text. The third Appendix
[‘The Great Treatise,” in Part IV] is the longest, and the most
jmportant?. In the 49th paragraph of the second Section of it it is

said: —

‘Was it not in the middle period of antiquity that the / began
to flourish? Was not he who made it (or were not they who made
it) familiar with anxiety and calamity?’

The highest antiquity commences, according to Chinese writers,
with Fu-hsi, p.c. 3322; and the lowest with Confucius in the
middle of the sixth century B.c. Between these is the period of
middle antiquity, extending a comparatively short time, from the
rise of the Chou dynasty, towards the close of the twelfth century
B.c., to the Confucian era. According to this paragraph it was in
this period that our / was made.

The 69th paragraph is still more definite in its testimony: —

‘Was it not in the last age of the Yin (dynasty), when the virtue
of Chou had reached its highest point, and during the troubles
between King Wen and (the tyrant) Chou, that (the study of) the
/ began to flourish? On this account the explanations (in the
book) express (a feeling of) anxious apprehension, (and teach)
how peril may be turned into security, and easy carelessness is
sure to meet with overthrow.’

The dynasty of Yin was superseded by that of Chou in B.c.
1122. The founder of Chou was he whom we call King Wen,
though he himself never occupied the throne. The troubles be-
tween him and the last sovereign of Yin reached their height in
Bc. 1143, when the tyrant threw him into prison in a place called
Yuli, identified as having been in the present district of Thang-
yin, department of Chang-teh, province of Ho-nan. Wen was not
Xept long in confinement. His friends succeeded in appeasing the
Jealousy of his enemy, and securing his liberation in the following
Year. It follows that the J, so far as we owe it to King Wen, was

*See in the Tso Chuan, under the 22nd year of duke Chuang (8.c. 672); the Ist year of Min

(661); and in his 2nd year (660); twice in the 15th year of Hsi (645); his 25th year (635); the 12th

Na of Hsiian (597); the 16th year of Ch’eng (575); the 9th year of Hsiang (564); his 25th year (548);
© Sth year of Ch’ao (537); his 7th year (535); his 12th year (530); and the 9th year of Ai (486).

* With the Chinese critics it forms the fifth and sixth ‘Wings,’ as they are termed.
330 LecGe’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIQy

made in the year B.c. 1143 or 1142, or perhaps that it was begun
in the former year and finished in the latter’.

But the part which is thus ascribed to King Wen is only a smal]
portion of the /. A larger share is attributed to his son Tan, knowy
as the duke of Chou, and in it we have allusions to King Wu, why
succeeded his father Wen, and was really the first sovereign of the
dynasty of Chou’. There are passages, moreover, which must be
understood of events in the early years of the next reign. But the
duke of Chou died in the year s.c. 1105, the 11th of King Ch’eng,
A few years then before that time, in the last decade of the twelfth
century 3B.c., the J Ching, as it has come down to us, was com.
plete’.

5. We have traced the text of the / to its authors, the famous
King Wen in the year 1143 8.c., and his equally famous son, the
duke of Chou, in between thirty and forty years later. It can thus
boast of a great antiquity; but a general opinion has prevailed that
it belonged to a period still more distant. Only two translations of
it have been made by European scholars. The first was executed
by Regis and other Roman Catholic missionaries in the beginning
of last century, though it was given to the public only in 1834 by
the late Jules Mohl, with a title commencing ‘Y-King, antiquissi-
mus Sinarum liber?’ The language of the other European trans-
lator of it, the Rev. Canon McClatchie of Shanghai, whose work
appeared in 1876, is still more decided. The first sentence of his
Introduction contains two very serious misstatements, but J have
at present to do only with the former of them;—that ‘the / Ching
is regarded by the Chinese with peculiar veneration, . . . as being

1Ssu-ma Ch’ien (History of the Chou Dynasty, p. 3) relates that, ‘when he was confined in
Yu-li, Wen increased the 8 trigrams to 64 hexagrams.’

* Eg. hexagrams XVII, 1.6; XLVI, 1. 4. Tan’s authorship of the symbolism is recognised in the
Tso Chuan, Bc. 540.

3P. Regis (vol. ii, p. 379) says: ‘Vel nihil vel parum errabit qui dicet opus / Ching fuisse pet
fectum anno quinto Ch’eng Wang, seu anno 1109 aut non ultra annum 1108, ante aerae Christianae
initium; quod satis in rebus non omnino certis.’ But the fifth year of King Ch’eng was n.c. 111 1.

‘It has been suggested that ‘Antiquissimus Sinarum liber’ may mean only ‘A very ancient book
of the Chinese,’ but the first sentence of the Preface to the work commences: — ‘Inter omnes constit
librorum Sinicorum, quos classicos vocant, primum et antiquissimum esse Y-King.’ eof

At the end of M. De Guignes’ edition of P. Gaubil’s translation of the Shu, there is a notice
the J Ching sent in 1738 to the Cardinals of the Congregation de Propaganda Fide by M. Claude
Visdelou, Bishop of Claudiopolis, M. De Guignes says himself, ‘L’ Y-King est le premier des Livres
Canoniques des Chinois.” But P. Visdelou writes more guardedly and correctly: —‘Pour son an
cienneté, s’il en faut croire les Annales des Chinois, il a été commencé quarante-six siécles avant
celui-ci. Si cela est vrai, comme toute la nation ’avoue unanimement, ou peut a juste titre Tappe 5
le plus ancien des livres.’ But he adds, ‘Ce n’étoit pas proprement un livre, ni quelque chose d'ap,
prochant; c’étoit une énigme trés obscure, et plus difficile cent fois 4 expliquer que celle du sphin®

P. Couplet expresses himself much to the same effect in the prolegomena (p. xviii) to the wor
called ‘Confucius Sinarum Philosophus,’ published at Paris in 1687 by himself and three othe’
fathers of the Society of Jesus (Intorcetta, Herdritch, and Rougemont). Both they and P. Visdel Se
give an example of a portion of the text and its interpretation, having singularly selected the sam
hexagram ~- the 15th, on Humility.
3 INTRODUCTION 331

the most ancient of their classical writings.” The Shu is the oldest
of the Chinese classics, and contains documents more than a
thousand years earlier than King Wen. Several pieces of the Shih
Ching are also older than anything in the /; to which there can
thus be assigned only the third place in point of age among the
monuments of Chinese literature. Existing, however, about 3000
years ago, it cannot be called modern. Unless it be the books of the
Pentateuch, Joshua, and Judges, an equal antiquity cannot be
claimed for any portion of our Sacred Scriptures.

It will be well to observe here also how much older the Text is
than the Appendixes. Supposing them to be the work of Con-
fucius, though it will appear by and by that this assumption can
be received as only partially correct, if indeed it be received at all,
the sage could not have entered on their composition earlier than
B.C. 483, 660 years later than the portion of the text that came
from King Wen, and nearly 630 later than what we owe to the
duke of Chou. But during that long period of between six and
seven centuries changes may have arisen in the views taken by
thinking men of the method and manner of the /; and I cannot
accept the Text and the Appendixes as forming one work in any
proper sense of the term. Nothing has prevented the full under-
standing of both, so far as parts of the latter can be understood, so
much as the blending of them together, which originated with
Pi Chih of the first Han dynasty. The common editions of the
book have five of the Appendixes (as they are ordinarily reckoned)
broken up and printed side by side with the Text; and the con-
fusion thence arising has made it difficult, through the intermix-
ture of incongruous ideas, for foreign students to lay hold of the
Meaning,

6. Native scholars have of course been well aware of the differ-
ence in time between the appearance of the Text and the Appen-
dixes; and in the K’ang-hsi edition of them the two are printed
Separately. Only now and then, however, has any critic ventured
to doubt that the two parts formed one homogeneous whole, or
that al] the Appendixes were from the style or pencil of Confucius.
undreds of them have brought a wonderful and consistent mean-
Ng out of the Text; but to find in it or in the Appendixes what is
anreasonable, or any inconsistency between them, would be to
o peach the infallibility of Confucius, and stamp on themselves

¢ brand of heterodoxy. -

i. the same time it is an unfair description of what they have
Cir plished to say, as has been done lately, that since the fires of
ext the foremost scholars of each generation have edited the
(meaning both the Text and the Appendixes), and heaped
332 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIqy |

commentary after commentary upon it; and one and all hay,
arrived at the somewhat lame conclusion that its full significang,
is past finding out!” A multitude of the native commentaries are of
the highest value, and have left little to be done for the elucidatio
of the Text; and if they say that a passage in an Appendix is ‘un.
fathomable’ or ‘incalculable,’ it is because their authors shrink
from allowing, even to themselves, that the ancient sages inter.
meddled, and intermeddied unwisely, with things too high for
them.

When the same writer who thus speaks of native scholars goes
on to say that ‘in the same way a host of European Chinese
scholars have made translations of the /, and have, if possible, made
confusion worse confounded,” he only shows how imperfectly he
had made himself acquainted with the subject. “The host of Euro-
pean Chinese scholars who have made translations of the I’ amount
to two,—the same two mentioned by me above on p. 330. The
translation of Regis and his coadjutors? is indeed capable of im-
provement; but their work as a whole, and especially the pro-
legomena, dissertations, and notes, supply a mass of correct and
valuable information. They had nearly succeeded in unravelling
the confusion, and solving the enigma of the /.

Chapter 11: The Subject-matter of the Text. The Lineal
Figures and the Explanation of them.

1. Having described the I Ching as consisting of a text in ex-
planation of certain lineal figures, and of appendixes to it, and
having traced the composition of the former to its authors in the
twelfth century B.C., and that of the latter to between six and
seven centuries later at least, I proceed to give an account of what
we find in the Text, and how it is deduced from the figures.

The subject-matter of the Text may be briefly represented as
consisting of sixty-four short essays, enigmatically and sym-
bolically expressed, on important themes, mostly of a moral,
social, and political character, and based on the same number of

1 See a communication on certain new views about the / in the ‘Times’ of April 20, 1880; 1
printed in Triibner’s American, European, and Oriental Literary Record, New Series, vol. i, pP-
125-127.

£ Regis’ coadjutors in the work were the Fathers Joseph de Mailla, who turned the Chinese inte
Latin word for word, and compared the result with the Manchu version of the /; and Peter du
Tartre, whose principal business was to supply the historical illustrations. Regis himself revis®
all their work and enlarged it, adding his own dissertations and notes. See Prospectus Opens
immediately after M. Mohl’s Preface.
333

; INTRODUCTION
lineal figures, each made up of six lines, some of which are whole

and the others divided.
The first two and the last two may serve for the present as a

=, and ==, ==. The

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specimen of those figures: === ==

Text says nothing about their origin and formation. There they
are. King Wen takes them up, one after another, in the order that
suits himself, determined, evidently, by the contrast in the lines of
each successive pair of hexagrams, and gives their significance, as
a whole, with some indication, perhaps, of the action to be taken
in the circumstances which he supposes them to symbolise, and
whether that action will be lucky or unlucky. Then the duke of
Chou, beginning with the first or bottom line, expresses, by means
of a symbolical or emblematical illustration, the significance of
each line, with a similar indication of the good or bad fortune of
action taken in connexion with it. The king's interpretation of the
whole hexagram will be found to be in harmony with the com-
bined significance of the six lines as interpreted by his son.

Both of them, no doubt, were familiar with the practice of divi-
nation which had prevailed in China for more than a thousand
years, and would copy closely its methods and style. They were
not divining themselves, but their words became oracles to sub-
sequent ages, when men divined by the hexagrams, and sought by
means of what was said under them to ascertain how it would be
with them in the future, and learn whether they should persevere
nor withdraw from the courses they were intending to pursue.

2. I will give an instance of the lessons which the lineal figures
are made to teach, but before I do so, it will be necessary to relate
what is said of their origin, and of the rules observed in studying
and interpreting them. For information on these points we must
have recourse to the Appendixes; and in reply to the question by
Whom and in what way the figures were formed, the third [“The
Great Treatise], of which we made use in the last chapter, sup-
Plies us with three different answers.

(i) The 11th paragraph of Section ii says: —

‘Anciently, when the rule of all under heaven was in the hands
of Pao-hsi, looking up, he contemplated the brilliant forms ex-
hibited in the sky; and looking down, he surveyed the patterns
shown on the earth. He marked the ornamental appearances on
birds and beasts, and the (different) suitabilities of the soil. Near

. at hand, in his own person, he found things for consideration,
and the same at a distance, in things in general. On this he de-
Vised the eight lineal figures of three lines each, to exhibit fully
334 LEGGE'S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTY,

the spirit-like and intelligent operations (in nature), and to cl,
sify the qualities of the myriads of things.’ ’

Pao-hsi is another name for Fu-hsi, the most ancient person, i
who is mentioned with any definiteness in Chinese history, wh,
much that is fabulous is current about him. His place in chron}.
ogy begins in B.c. 3322, 5203 years ago. He appears in this par |
graph as the deviser of the eight kua or trigrams. The processes},
which he was led to form them, and the purposes which he jy.
tended them to serve, are described, but in vague and gener
terms that do not satisfy our curiosity. The eight figures, howeve;
were = == —_—
= =; called Ch’ien, Tui, Li, Chen, Sun, K'an, Ken, and K'un
and representing heaven or the sky; water, especially a collection
of water as in a marsh or lake; fire, the sun, lightning; thunder,
wind and wood; water, especially as in rain, the clouds, springs
streams in defiles, and the moon; a hill or mountain; and the earth
To each of these figures is assigned a certain attribute or quality
which should be suggested by the natural object it symbolises; but
on those attributes we need not enter at present.

(ii) The 70th and 71st paragraphs of Section i give another ac
count of the origin of the trigrams: —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

)

, ==, ==, = =, and

‘In (the system of) the / there is the Great Extreme, which
produced the two I (Elementary Forms). These two Forms pro
duced the four Hsiang (Emblematic Symbols); which again pro-
duced the eight Kua (or Trigrams). The eight Kua served t©
determine the good and evil (issues of events), and from this
determination there ensued the (prosecution of the) great bust
ness of life.

The two elementary Forms, the four emblematic Symbols, and
the eight Trigrams can all be exhibited with what may be deemed
certainty. A whole line ( ) and a divided (— —) were the
two I. These two lines placed over themselves, and each of them
over the other, formed the four Hsiang: som em =
= ==. The same two lines placed successively over these Hsiang
formed the eight Kua, exhibited above.

Who will undertake to say what is meant by ‘the Great Ex
treme’ which produced the two elementary Forms? Nowhere else
does the name occur in the old Confucian literature. 1 have n¢
doubt myself that it found its way into this Appendix in the fifth
(? or fourth) century B.c. from a Taoist source. Chu Hsi, in his
‘Lessons on the / for the Young,’ gives for it the figure of a circle~
thus, 0; observing that he does so from the philosopher Cho

 

 

 
5 INTRODUCTION 335

(AD: 1017-1073), and cautioning his readers against thinking that
such a representation came from Fu-hsi himself. To me the cir-
cular symbol appears very unsuccessful. “The Great Extreme,’ it
is said, ‘divided and produced two lines,—a whole line and a di-
vided line” But I do not understand how this could be. Suppose it

ossible for the circle to unroll itself; — we shall have one long line,
—— If this divide itself, we have two whole lines; and another
division of one of them is necessary to give us the whole and the
divided lines of the lineal figures. The attempt to fashion the
Great Extreme as a circle must be pronounced a failure.

But when we start from the two lines as bases, the formation
of all the diagrams by a repetition of the process indicated above
is easy. The addition to each of the trigrams of each of the two
fundamental lines produces 16 figures of four lines; dealt with in
the same way, these produce 32 figures of five lines; and a similar
operation with these produces the 64 hexagrams, each of which
forms the subject of an essay in the text of the /. The lines increase
in an arithmetical progression whose common difference is 1, and
the figures in a geometrical progression whose common ratio is 2.
This is all the mystery in the formation of the lineal figures; this,
I believe, was the process by which they were first formed; and
it is hardly necessary to imagine them to have come from a sage
like Fu-hsi. The endowments of an ordinary man were sufficient
for such a work. It was possible even to shorten the operation by
Proceeding at once from the trigrams to the hexagrams, according
to what we find in Section i, paragraph 2: —

‘A strong and a weak line were manipulated together (till
there were the 8 trigrams), and those 8 trigrams were added
each to itself and to all the others (till the 64 hexagrams were
formed).’

Ie is a moot question who first multiplied the figures from the
trigrams universally ascribed to Fu-hsi to the 64 hexagrams of the
I. The more common view is that it was King Wen; but Chu Hsi,
When he was questioned on the subject, rather inclined to hold
that Fy-hsi had multiplied them himself, but declined to say
Whether he thought that their names were as old as the figures
themselves, or only dated from the twelfth century B.c.2 I will not
Venture to controvert his opinion about the multiplication of the

a ! Chou-Tse, called Chou Tun-i and Chou Man-shuh, and, still more commonly, from the rivulet
®ar which was his favourite residence, Chou Lien-ch’i. Mayers (Chinese Reader's Manual, p. 23)
ys ~He held various offices of state, and was for many years at the head of a galaxy of scholars
. 10 sought for instruction in matters of philosophy and research: —second only to Chu Hsi in

"erary repute.’
? Chy-tzu K'uan shu, or Digest of Works of Chu-tzu, chap. 26 (the first chapter on the [), art. 16.
336 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTI.

figures, but I must think that the names, as we have them noy
were from King Wen.

No Chinese writer has tried to explain why the framers stoppe
with the 64 hexagrams, instead of going on to 128 figures of 7 line
256 of 8, 512 of 9, and so on indefinitely. No reason can be give
for it, but the cumbrousness of the result, and the impossibility
dealing, after the manner of King Wen, with such a mass of figure

(iii) The 73rd paragraph of Section i, with but one paragrapt
between it and the two others which we have been considering
gives what may be considered a third account of the origin of the
lineal figures: —

   
 
 
 
    

‘Heaven produced the spirit-like things (the tortoise and the
divining plant), and the sages took advantage of them. (The
operations of) heaven and earth are marked by so many changes
and transformations, and the sages imitated them (by means o
the 7). Heaven hangs out its (brilliant) figures, from which are
seen good fortune and bad, and the sages made their emblematic
interpretations accordingly. The Ho gave forth the scheme or
map, and the Lo gave forth the writing, of (both of) which the
sages took advantage.’

The words with which we have at present to do are— “The Ho
(that is, the Yellow River) gave forth the Map.’ This map, accord-
ing to tradition and popular belief, contained a scheme which
served as a model to Fu-hsi in making his 8 trigrams. Apart from
this passage in the / Ching, we know that Confucius believed in
such a map, or spoke at least as if he did". In the ‘Record of Rites
it is said that ‘the map was borne by a horse?;" and the thing, what-
ever it was, is mentioned in the Shu as still preserved at court,
among other curiosities, in B.c. 10793. The story of it, as now cur
rent, is this, that ‘a dragon-horse’ issued from the Yellow River,
bearing on its back an arrangement of marks, from which Fu- hsi
got the idea of the trigrams.

All this is so evidently fabulous that it seems a waste of time 0
enter into any details about it. My reason for doing so is a wish to
take advantage of the map in giving such a statement of the rules
observed in interpreting the figures as is necessary in this Intro
duction.

The map that was preserved, it has been seen, in the eleventh
century B.C. afterwards perished, and though there was much
speculation about its form from the time that the restoration ©

1 Analects IX, viii.

2 Li Chi VII, iv, 16.
3 Shu V, xxii, 19.
3 INTRODUCTION 337

the ancient classics was undertaken in the Han dynasty, the first
delineation of it given to the public was in the reign of Hui Tsung
of the Sung dynasty (a.p. 1101-1125). The most approved scheme
of it is the following: —

O0O000OO0O0

®e © °
® o0 000 o
®
° oe °
® O O ® O
® CO 000 ° oO
® O O oO
® 5
°®
° eeooe :
0
ecco

It will be observed that the markings in this scheme are small
circles, pretty nearly equally divided into dark and light. All of
them whose numbers are odd are light circles,— 1, 3, 5,7,9; and all
of them whose numbers are even are dark,—2, 4, 6, 8, 10. This is
given as the origin of what is said in paragraphs 49 and 50 of Sec-
tion i about the numbers of heaven and earth. The difference in
the colour of the circles occasioned the distinction of them and of
what they signify into Yin and Yang, the dark and the bright, the
moon-like and the sun-like; for the sun is called the Great Bright-
ness (Thai Yang), and the moon the Great Obscurity (Thai Yin).
I shall have more to say in the next chapter on the application of
these names. Fu-hsi in making the trigrams, and King Wen, if it
Was he who first multiplied them to the 64 hexagrams, found it
Convenient to use lines instead of the circles: —the whole line
(~~) for the bright circle (0), and the divided line (— —) for
the dark (®). The first, the third, and the fifth lines in a hexagram,
if they are ‘correct’ as it is called, should all be whole, and the sec-
ond, fourth, and sixth lines should all be divided. Yang lines are
Strong (or hard), and Yin lines are weak (or soft). The former indi-
Cate vigour and authority; the latter, feebleness and submission.

tis the part of the former to command; of the latter to obey.

* See Mayers’ Chinese Reader's Manual, pp. 56, 57.
338 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIOy

The lines, moreover, in the two trigrams that make up the hex,
grams, and characterise the subjects which they represent, are
related to one another by their position, and have their signifi.
cance modified accordingly. The first line and the fourth, the
second and the fifth, the third and the sixth are all correlates; ang
to make the correlation perfect the two members of it should be
lines of different qualities, one whole and the other divided. And,
finally, the middle lines of the trigrams, the second and fifth, that
is, of the hexagrams, have a peculiar value and force. If we havea
whole line ( ) in the fifth place, and a divided line (— —) in
the second, or vice versa the correlation is complete. Let the sub-
ject of the fifth be the sovereign or a commander-in-chief, accord-
ing to the name and meaning of the hexagram, then the subject
of the second will be an able minister or a skilful officer, and the
result of their mutual action will be most beneficial and successful,
It is specially important to have a clear idea of the name of the
hexagram, and of the subject or state which it is intended to denote.
The significance of all the lines comes thus to be of various appli-
cation, and will differ in different hexagrams.

I have thus endeavoured to indicate how the lineal figures were
formed, and the principal rules laid down for the interpretation of
them. The details are wearying, but my position is like that of one
who is called on to explain an important monument of architec-
ture, very bizarre in its conception and execution. A plainer, sim-
pler structure might have answered the purpose better, but the
architect had his reasons for the plan and style which he adopted.
If the result of his labours be worth expounding, we must not
grudge the study necessary to detect his processes of thought, nor
the effort and time required to bring the minds of others into sym-
pathy with his.

My own opinion, as I have intimated, is, that the second account
of the origin of the trigrams and hexagrams is the true one. How-
ever the idea of the whole and divided lines arose in the mind of
the first framer, we must start from them; and then, manipulating
them in the manner described, we arrive, very easily, at all the
lineal figures, and might proceed to multiply them to billions. We
cannot tell who devised the third account of their formation from
the map or scheme on the dragon-horse of the Yellow River. Its
object, no doubt, was to impart a supernatural character to the
trigrams and produce a religious veneration for them. It may be
doubted whether the scheme as it is now fashioned be the correct
one,—such as it was in the Chou dynasty. The paragraph wher¢

 

! Certainly it was not Confucius. See on the authorship of the Appendixes, and especially of
Appendix IIL, in the next chapter,
; INTRODUCTION, 339

it is mentioned, goes on to say — “The Lo produced the writing.’
This writing was a scheme of the same character as the Ho map,
put on the back of a tortoise, which emerged from the river Lo,
and showed it to the Great Yii, when he was engaged in his cele-
prated work of draining off the waters of the flood, as related in the
shu. To the hero sage it suggested ‘the Great Plan,” an interesting
put mystical document of the same classic, ‘a Treatise,’ according
to Gaubil, ‘of Physics, Astrology, Divination, Morals, Politics,
and Religion,” the great model for the government of the kingdom.
The accepted representation of this writing is the following: —

°
®@ © OO000000O0

® ®
oO
oO O
O
oO O O 0
0
O O
0
o
oO
® Oo ®o Oo
® Oo O ®e ©
® ®
But substituting numbers for the number of marks, we have
4 9 2
3 5 7
8 1 6

This is nothing but the arithmetical puzzle, in which the num-
ers from 1 to 9 are arranged so as to make 15 in whatever way we
add them?. If we had the original form of ‘the River Map,’ we
should probably find it a numerical trifle, not more difficult, not
More supernatural, than this magic square.
3. Let us return to the / of Chou, which, as I have said above,

* For this dissection, which may also be called reductio ad absurdum. of the Lo writing, I was in-
debred first to P. Regis. See his Y-King I, p. 60. But Chu Hsi also has got it in the Appendix to a
sons on the [ for the Young.
340 LEGGE'S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTI(,

contains, under each of the 64 hexagrams, a brief essay of a mory |
social, or political character, symbolically expressed. ;

To understand it, it will be necessary to keep in mind the cir. |
cumstarices in which King Wen addressed himself to the study ¢
the lineal figures. The kingdom, under the sovereigns of the Yj,
or Shang dynasty, was utterly disorganised and demoralised. 4
brother of the reigning king thus described its condition: —

‘The house of Yin can no longer exercise rule over the land,
The great deeds of our founder were displayed in a former age,
but through mad addiction to drink we have destroyed the ef.
fects of his virtue. The people, small and great, are given to high-
way robberies, villainies, and treachery. The nobles and officers
imitate one another in violating the laws. There is no certainty
that criminals will be apprehended. The lesser people rise up
and commit violent outrages on one another. The dynasty of
Yin is sinking in ruin; its condition is like that of one crossing a
large stream, who can find neither ford nor bank!’

This miserable state of the nation was due very much to the
character and tyranny of the monarch. When the son of Wen took
the field against him, he thus denounced him in ‘a Solemn Decla-
ration’ addressed to all the states: —

Shou, the king of Shang, treats all virtue with contemptuous
slight, and abandons himself to wild idleness and irreverence.
He has cut himself off from Heaven, and brought enmity be-
tween himself and the people. He cut through the leg-bones of
those who were wading in a (winter-) morning; he cut out the
heart of the good man?. His power has been shown in killing
and murdering. His honours and confidence are given to the
villainous and bad. He has driven from him his instructors and
guardians. He has thrown to the winds the statutes and penal
laws. He neglects the sacrifices to Heaven and Earth. He has
discontinued the offerings in the ancestral temple. He makes
(cruel) contrivances of wonderful device and extraordinary
ingenuity to please his wife. —God will no longer bear with
him, but with a curse is sending down his ruin?’

The Shu IV, xi, 1, 2. ;
* These were well-known instances of Shou’s wanton cruelty. Observing some people one winter
day wading through a stream, he ordered their legs to be cut through at the shank-bone, that be
might see the marrow which could so endure the cold. ‘The good man’ was a relative of his ow
called Pi-kan. Having enraged Shou by the sternness of his rebukes, the tyrant ordered his heart a
be cut out, that he might see the structure of a sage’s heart. .
®We do not know what these contrivances were. But to please his wife, the infamous Ta Ch*
Shou had made ‘the Heater’ and ‘the Roaster,” two instruments of torture. The latter was 2 cOPP°

pillar laid above 5 pit of burning charcoal, and made slippery; culprits were forced to walk along it
4 The Shu V. i, Sect. jij, 2, 3 Ppa vip
, INTRODUCTION 341

guch was the condition of the nation, such the character of the
qvereign. Meanwhile in the west of the kingdom, in a part of
what is NOW the province of Shen-hsi, lay the principality of Chou,
he lords of which had long been distinguished for their ability
and virtue. Its present chief, now known to us as King Wen, was
Kang, who had succeeded to his father in B.c. 1185. He was not
only lord of Chou, but had come to be a sort of viceroy over a

reat part of the kingdom. Equally distinguished in peace and war,
smodel of all that was good and attractive, he conducted himself
with remarkable wisdom and self-restraint. Princes and people
would have rejoiced to follow him to attack the tyrant, but he
shrank from exposing himself to the charge of being disloyal. At
ast the jealous suspicion of Shou was aroused. Wen, as has been
dready stated, was thrown into prison in B.c. 1143, and the order
for his death might arrive at any moment. Then it was that he
wcupied himself with the lineal figures.

The use of those figures—of the trigrams at least—had long
been practised for the purposes of divination. The employment of
the divining stalks is indicated in ‘the Counsels of the Great Yu,
me of the earliest Books of the Shut, and a whole section in ‘the
Great Plan, also a Book of the Shu, and referred to the times of the
Hsia dynasty, describes how ‘doubts were to be examined’ by
means of the tortoise-shell and the stalks2. Wen could not but be
fmiliar with divination as an institution of his country? Possibly
toccurred to him that nothing was more likely to lull the sus-
Peions of his dangerous enemy than the study of the figures; and
his keepers took notice of what he was doing, they would smile
this lines, and the sentences which he appended to them.

1 like to think of the lord of Chou, when incarcerated in Yu-li,
¥ith the 64 figures arranged before him. Each hexagram assumed a
Wystic meaning, and glowed with a deep significance. He made
"tell him of the qualities of various objects of nature, or of the
Pinciples of human society, or of the condition, actual and possi-
'% of the kingdom. He named the figures, each by a term descrip-
"We of the idea with which he had connected it in his mind, and

tn he proceeded to set that idea forth, now with a note of exhor-
tion, now with a note of warning. It was an attempt to restrict
follies of divination within the bounds of reason. The last but

e of the Appendixes bears the name of ‘Sequence of the Dia-
Yam’ [“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” in Part IV].
all have to speak of it more at length in the next chapter. I only

*Shu 11, ji, 18.

Sh, Vi es 1.

Toph the Book of Poetry we have Wen’s grandfather (Than-fu, II1, i, ode 3. 3) divining, and his son
Wu, IIL i, ode 10.7) doing the same.
342 LEGGE'S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

remark at present that it deals, feebly indeed, with the names of
the hexagrams in harmony with what I have said about them, and
tries to account for the order in which they follow one another. It
does all this, not critically as if it needed to be established, but in
the way of expository statement, relating that about which there
was no doubt in the mind of the author.

But all the work of Prince K'ang or King Wen in the / thus
amounts to no more than 64 short paragraphs. We do not know
what led his son Tan to enter into his work and complete it as he
did. Tan was a patriot, a hero, a legislator, and a philosopher.
Perhaps he took the lineal figures in hand as a tribute of filial duty.
What had been done for the whole hexagram he would do for
each line, and make it clear that all the six lines ‘bent one way
their precious influence, and blended their rays in the globe of
light which his father had made each figure give forth. But his
method’ strikes us as singular. Each line seemed to become living,
and suggested some phenomenon in nature or some case of human
experience, from which the wisdom or folly, the luckiness or un-
luckiness, indicated by it could be inferred. It cannot be said that
the duke carried out his plan in a way likely to interest any one
but a hsien sheng who is a votary of divination, and admires the
style of its oracles. According to our notions, a framer of emblems
should be a good deal of a poet, but those of the / only make us
think of a dryasdust. Out of more than 350, the greater number
are only grotesque. We do not recover from the feeling of disap-
pointment till we remember that both father and son had to write
‘according to the trick,’ after the manner of diviners, as if this lincal
augury had been their profession.

4. Atlength I come to illustrate what I have said on the subject-
matter of the / by an example. It shall be the treatment of the

seventh hexagram = =) which King Wen named Shih, mean-

ing Hosts. The character is also explained as meaning ‘multitudes;’
and in fact, in a feudal kingdom, the multitudes of the people were
all liable to become its army, when occasion required, and the
‘host’ and the ‘population’ might be interchangeable terms. As
Froude expresses it in the introductory chapter to his History of
England, ‘Every man was regimented somewhere.’

The hexagram Shih is composed of the two trigrams Kan
(==) and K’un (== =), exhibiting waters collected on the earth;
and in other symbolisms besides that of the J, waters indicate
assembled multitudes of men. The waters on which the mystical
Babylon sits in the Apocalypse are explained as ‘peoples and multi-
tudes and nations and tongues.’ I do not positively affirm that it
was by this interpretation of the trigrams that King Wen saw in

 
72 INTRODUCTION } 343

1

Z = the feudal hosts of his country collected, for neither from

him nor his son do we learn, by their direct affirmation, that they
had any acquaintance with the trigrams of Fu-hsi. The name which
he gave the figure shows, however, that he saw in it the feudal
hosts in the field. How shall their expedition be conducted that it
may come to a successful issue?

Looking again at the figure, we see that it is made up of five
divided lines, and of one undivided. The undivided line occupies
the central place in the lower trigram,— the most important place,
next to the fifth, in the whole hexagram. It will represent, in the
language of the commentators, ‘the lord of the whole figure;’ and
the parties represented by the other lines may be expected to be
of one mind with him or obedient to him. He must be the leader
of the hosts. If he were on high, in the fifth place, he would be the
sovereign of the kingdom. This is what King Wen says: —

‘Shih indicates how (in the case which it supposes), with firm-
ness and correctness, and (a leader of) age and experience, there
will be good fortune and no error.’

This is a good auspice. Let us see how the duke of Chou expands
it,
He says: —
“The first line, divided, shows the host going forth according

to the rules (for such a movement). If those (rules) be not good,
there will be evil.’

We are not told what the rules for a military expedition were.
Some commentators understand them of the reasons justifying
the movement, — that it should be to repress and punish disorder
and rebellion. Others, with more likelihood, take them to be the
discipline or rules laid down to be observed by the troops. The
line is divided, a weak line in a strong place, ‘not correct: this
justifies the caution given in the duke’s second sentence.

The Text goes on: —

“The second line, undivided, shows (the leader) in the midst
of the hosts. There will be good fortune and no error. The king
has thrice conveyed to him his charge.’

This does not need any amplification. The duke saw in the
strong line the symbol of the leader, who enjoyed the full confi-
dence of his sovereign, and whose authority admitted of no oppo-
sition.

On the third line it is said: —
344 LecGe’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCT,

‘The third line, divided, shows how the hosts may possi
have many commanders: — (in such a case) there will be evil”

The third place is odd, and should be occupied by 4 strong lin
instead of which we have a weak line in it. But it is at the top
the lower trigram, and its subject should be in office or activi
There is suggested the idea that its subject has vaulted over tj;
second line, and wishes to share in the command and honour
him who has been appointed sole commander-in-chief. The lessq
in the previous line is made of none effect. We have a divide
authority in the expedition. The result can only be evil.

On the fourth line the duke wrote: —

“The fourth line, divided, shows the hosts in retreat: there is
no error.’

The line is also weak, and victory cannot be expected; but in
the fourth place a weak line is in its correct position, and its sub
ject will do what is right in his circumstances. He will retreat, and
a retreat is for him the part of wisdom. When safely effected
where advance would be disastrous, a retreat is as glorious a
victory.

Under the fifth line we read: —

“The fifth line, divided, shows birds in the fields which it is
advantageous to seize (and destroy). There will be no error. If
the oldest son lead the host, and younger men be (also) in com-
mand, however firm and correct he may be, there will be evil.

We have an intimation in this passage that only defensive war, of
war waged by the rightful authority to put down rebellion and
lawlessness, is right. The ‘birds in the fields’ are emblematic of
plunderers and invaders, whom it will be well to destroy. The fifth
line symbolises the chief authority, but here he is weak or humble,
and has given all power and authority to execute judgment into the
hands of the commander-in-chief, who is the oldest son; and in the
subject of line 3 we have an example of the younger men who
would cause evil if allowed to share his power. Finally, on the
sixth line the duke wrote:

“The topmost line, divided, shows the great ruler delivering
his charges (to the men who have distinguished themselves), ap",
pointing some to be rulers of states, and others to be chiefs
clans. But small men should not be employed (in such positions)

The action of the hexagram has been gone through. The exped”
tion has been conducted to a successful end. The enemy has bee?
, INTRODUCTION . 345

subdued. His territories are at the disposal of the conqueror. The
commander-in-chief has done his part well. His sovereign, ‘the
reat ruler,’ comes upon the scene, and rewards the officers who
have been conspicuous by their bravery and skill, conferring on
them rank and lands. But he is warned to have respect in doing so
to their moral character. Small men, of ordinary or less than or-
dinary character, may be rewarded with riches and certain hon-
ours; but land and the welfare of its population should not be given
into the hands of any who are not equal to the responsibility of
such a trust.

The above is a specimen of what I have called the essays that
make up the J of Chou. So would King Wen and his son have had
all military expeditions conducted in their country 3000 years ago.
It seems to me that the principles which they lay down might find
a suitable application in the modern warfare of our civilised and
Christian Europe. The inculcation of such lessons cannot have been
without good effect in China during the long course of its history.

Shih is a fair specimen of its class. From the other 63 hexagrams
lessons are deduced, for the most part equally good and striking.
But why, it may be asked, why should they be conveyed to us by
such an array of lineal figures, and in such a farrago of emblematic
representations? It is not for the foreigner to insist on such a ques-
tion. The Chinese have not valued them the less because of the
antiquated dress in which their lessons are arrayed. Hundreds of
their commentators have evolved and developed their meaning with
4 minuteness of detail and felicity of illustration that leave nothing
to be desired. It is for foreign students of Chinese to gird up their
loins for the mastery of the book instead of talking about it as mys-
terious and all but inexplicable. .

Granting, however, that the subject-matter of the / is what has

en described, very valuable for its practical wisdom, but not

fawn up from an abysmal deep of philosophical speculation, it
Tay still be urged, ‘But in all this we find nothing to justify the
Name of the book as / Ching, the “Classic of Changes.” Is there not
Something more, higher or deeper, in the Appendixes that have
“en ascribed to Confucius, whose authority is certainly not infe-
Hor to that of King Wen, or the duke of Chou?’ To reply fully to
this question will require another chapter.

Chapter Ill: Phe Appendixes.

l. Two things have to be considered in this chapter: — the author-

ship of the Appendixes, and their contents. The Text is ascribed,
346 LEGGE'S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTq,

without dissentient voice, to King Wen, the founder of the Cho,
dynasty, and his son Tan, better known as the duke of Chou; and;
have, in the preceding chapters, given reasons for accepting th,
view. As regards the portion ascribed to King Wen, the evidence o
the third of the Appendixes [The Great Treatise,” in Part Iv
and the statement of Ssu-ma Ch’ien are as positive as could be de.
sired; and as regards that ascribed to his son, there is no ground fy
calling in question the received tradition. The Appendixes have a)
been ascribed to Confucius, though not with entirely the same
unanimity. Perhaps 1 have rather intimated my own opinion thy
this view cannot be sustained. I have pointed out that, even if it he
true, between six and seven centuries elapsed after the Text of the
classic appeared before the Appendixes were written; and I have
said that, considering this fact, I cannot regard its two parts asa
homogeneous whole, or as constituting one book in the ordinary
acceptation of that name. Before entering on the question of the
authorship, a very brief statement of the nature and number of
the Appendixes will be advantageous.

2. They are reckoned to be ten, and called the Shih 7 or “Ten
Wings.” They are in reality not so many; but the Text is divided
into two sections, called the Upper and Lower, or, as we should
say, the first and second, and then the commentary on each section
is made to form a separate Appendix. I have found it more con-
venient in the translation to adopt a somewhat different arrange-
ment.

My first Appendix, in two sections, embraces the first and sec-
ond ‘wings,’ consisting of remarks on the paragraphs by King
Wen in the two parts of the Text. [In the present edition, this
material constitutes the Commentary of each hexagram. — R.V.0OJ

My second Appendix, in two sections, embraces the third and
fourth ‘wings,’ consisting of remarks on the symbolism of the duke
of Chou in his explanation of the individual lines of the hexagrams.
[This constitutes the Great Symbolism, and the second part of the
remarks on the individual lines. —R.V.O’

My third Appendix, in two sections. unbraces the fifth and
sixth ‘wings,’ which bear the name in Chinese of ‘Appended Sen-
tences,’ and constitute what is called by many ‘the Great Treatise.
Each wing has been divided into twelve chapters of very different
length, and I have followed this arrangement in my sections. This
is the most important Appendix. It has less of the nature of com”
mentary than the previous four wings. While explaining much of
what is found in the Text, it diverges to the origin of the trigram$
the methods pursued in the practice of divination, the rise of many
y [NTRODUCTION 347

ris in the progress of civilisation, and other subjects. [This Appen-
fix, along with all the rest, is in Part IV. —R.V.0Q]

My fourth Appendix, also in two sections, forms the seventh
wing. It is confined to an amplification of the expositions of the
gest and second hexagrams by King Wen and his son, purporting
10 show how they may be interpreted of man’s nature and doings.

My fifth Appendix is the eighth ‘wing,’ called ‘Discourses on the
Trigrams.” It treats of the different arrangement of these in respect
of the seasons of the year and the cardinal points by Fu-hsi and
King Wen. It contains also one paragraph, which might seem to
justify the view that there is a mythology in the /.

My sixth Appendix, in two sections, is the ninth ‘wing,’ —‘a
Treatise on the Sequence of the Hexagrams,” intended to trace the
connexion of meaning between them in the order in which they
follow one another in the Text of King Wen.

My seventh Appendix is the tenth ‘wing,’ an exhibition of the
meaning of the 64 hexagrams, not taken in succession, but promis-
cuously and at random, as they approximate to or are opposed to
oneanother in meaning.

3. Such are the Appendixes of the I Ching. We have to enquire
next who wrote them, and especially whether it be possible to
accept the dictum that they were all written by Confucius. If
they have come down to us, bearing unmistakeably the stamp of
the mind and pencil of the great sage, we cannot but receive them
with deference, not to say with reverence. If, on the contrary, it
shall appear that with great part of them he had nothing to do, and
that it is not certain that any part of them is from him, we shall
feel entirely at liberty to exercise our own judgment on their con-
tents, and weigh them in the balances of our reason.

None of the Appendixes, it is to be observed, bear the super-
Sription of Confucius. There is not a single sentence in any one
of them ascribing it to him. I gave in the first chapter, on p. 2, the
€arliest testimony that these treatises were produced by him. It is
that of Ssu-ma Ch’ien, whose ‘Historical Records’ must have ap-
Peared about the year 100 before our era. He ascribes all the Ap-
Pendixes, except the last two of them, which he does not mention
al], expressly to Confucius; and this, no doubt, was the common
elief in the fourth century after the sage’s death.

But when we look for ourselves into the third and fourth Appen-
\Xes — the fifth, sixth, and seventh ‘wings’ ~both of which are
pecified by Ch’ien, we find it impossible to receive his statement

Out them. What is remarkable in both parts of the third is, the
Tequent occurrence of the formula, “The Master said, familiar to
348 LeEcGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCT
Tay

all readers of the Confucian Analects. Of course, the senteng,
following that formula, or the paragraph covered by it, was, in the
judgment of the writer, in the language of Confucius; but why,
shall we say of the portions preceding and following? If he wer
the author of them, he would not thus be distinguishing himsel;|
from himself. The formula occurs in the third Appendix at leag
twenty-three times. Where we first meet with it, Chu Hsi has,
note to the effect that ‘the Appendixes having been all made by
Confucius, he ought not to be himself introducing the formuls
“The Master said;” and that it may be presumed, wherever j
occurs, that it is a subsequent addition to the Master's text.” One
instance will show the futility of this attempt to solve the difficulty.
The tenth chapter of Section i commences with the 59th para
graph: —

‘In the I there are four things characteristic of the way of the
sages. We should set the highest value on its explanations, to
guide us in speaking; on its changes, for the initiation of our
movements; on its emblematic figures, for definite action, as in
the construction of implements; and on its prognostications, for
our practice of divination.’

This is followed by seven paragraphs expanding its statements,
and we come to the last one of the chapter which says,— ‘The
Master said, “Such is the import of the statement that there are
four things in the J, characteristic of the way of the sages.”” I cannot
understand how it could be more fully conveyed to us that the
compiler or compilers of this Appendix were distinct from the
Master whose words they quoted, as it suited them, to confirm or
illustrate their views.

In the fourth Appendix, again, we find a similar occurrence of
the formula of quotation. It is much shorter than the third, and the
phrase, ‘The Master said,” does not come before us so frequently;
but in the thirty-six paragraphs that compose the first section w¢
meet with it six times.

Moreover, the first three paragraphs of this Appendix are older
than its compilation, which could not have taken place till after the
death of Confucius, seeing it professes to quote his words. They
are taken in fact from a narrative of the Tso Chuan, as having bee?
spoken by a marchioness-dowager of Lu fourteen years before
Confucius was born. To account for this is a difficult task for the
orthodox critics among the Chinese literati. Chu Hsi attempts ©
perform it in this way: — that anciently there was the explanatio?
given in these paragraphs of the four adjectives employed by King
Wen to give the significance of the first hexagram; that it was en”
, INTRODUCTION 349

joyed by Mu Chiang of Lu; and that Confucius also availed him-
Pit of it, while the chronicler used, as he does below, the phrase-
“logy of ‘The Master said,’ to distinguish the rea] words of the sage
fom such ancient sayings. But who was ‘the chronicler?’ No one
can tell. The legitimate conclusion from Chu’s criticism is, that so
much of the Appendix as is preceded by “The Master said’ is from
Confucius, —so much and no more. I am thus obliged to come to
the conclusion that Confucius had nothing to do with the composi-
tion of these two Appendixes, and that they were not put together
til after his death. I have no pleasure in differing from the all but
unanimous opinion of Chinese critics and commentators. What is
called ‘the destructive criticism’ has no attractions for me; but
when an opinion depends on the argument adduced to support it,
and that argument turns out to be of no weight, you can no longer
set your seal to this, that the opinion is true. This is the position
in which an examination of the internal evidence as to the author-
ship of the third and fourth Appendixes has placed me. Confucius
could not be their author. This conclusion weakens the confidence
which we have been accustomed to place in the view that ‘the ten
wings’ were to be ascribed to him unhesitatingly. The view has
broken down in the case of three of them; — possibly there is no
sound reason for holding the Confucian origin of the other seven.
Tcannot henceforth maintain that origin save with bated breath.
This, however, can be said for the first two Appendixes in my ar-
fangement, that there is no evidence against their being Confucian
like the fatal formula, “The Master said.’ So it is with a good part of
ny fifth Appendix; but the concluding paragraphs of it, as well as
the seventh Appendix, and the sixth also in a less degree, seem too
ttivial to be the production of the great man. As a translator of
‘very sentence both in the Text and the Appendixes, I confess my
‘ympathy with P. Regis, when he condenses the fifth Appendix
‘nto small space, holding that the 8th and following paragraphs are
‘ot worthy to be translated. ‘They contain,’ he says, ‘nothing but
© mere enumeration of things, some of which may be called Yang,
‘nd others Yin, without any other cause for so thinking being
sven, Such a method of procedure would be unbecoming any
llosopher, and it cannot be denied to be unworthy of Confucius,
© chief of philosophers'.’
tho could not characterise Confucius as ‘the chief of philosophers,’
gh he was a great moral philosopher, and has been since he
ra out and in among his disciples, the best teacher of the Chinese
ten But from the first time my attention was directed to the J,
8retted that he had stopped to write the parts of the Appen-

R, wy
Bis’ Y-King, vol. ii, p. 576.
350 ;
LEGGE’sS PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

dixes now under remark. It is a relief not to be obliged to receive
them as his. Even the better treatises have no other claim to that
character besides the voice of tradition, first heard nearly 400 years
after his death.

4. I return to the Appendixes, and will endeavour to give a brief,
but sufficient, account of their contents.

The first bears in Chinese the name of T’uan Chuan, ‘Treatise on
the T’uan,’ t'uan being the name given to the paragraphs in which
Wen expresses his sense of the significance of the hexagrams. He
does not tell us why he attaches to each hexagram such and sucha
meaning, nor why he predicates good fortune. or bad fortune in
connexion with it, for he speaks oracularly, after the manner of a
diviner. It is the object of the writer of this Appendix to show the
processes of King Wen’s thoughts in these operations, how he
looked‘at the component trigrams with their symbolic intimations,
their attributes and qualities, and their linear composition, till he
could not think otherwise of the figures than he did. All these con-
siderations are sometimes taken into account, and sometimes even
one of them is deemed sufficient. In this way some technical charac-
ters appear which are not found in the Text. The lines, for in-
stance, and even whole trigrams are distinguished as kang and
zhao, ‘hard or strong’ and ‘weak or soft.’ The phrase Kuei-shen,
‘spirits, or ‘spiritual beings,’ occurs, but has not its physical signi-
fication of ‘the contracting and expanding energies or operations of
nature.’ The names Yin and Yang, mentioned above, do not present
themselves. .

I delineated the eight trigrams of Fu-hsi, and gave their names,
with the natural objects they are said to represent, but did not
mention the attributes, the virtues, ascribed to them. Let me sub-
mit her: a table of them, with those qualities, and the points of the
compass to which they are referred. I must do this because King
Wen made a change in the geagraphical arrangement of them, to
which reference is made perhaps in his text and certainly in this
treatise tle also is said to have formed an entirely different theory
as to the things represented by the trigrams, which it will be well
to give now, though it belongs properly to the fifth Appendix.

The natural objects and phenomena thus represented are found
up and down in the Appendixes. It is impossible to believe that the
several objects were assigned to the several figures on any princi-
ples of science, for there is no indication of science in the matter:
it is dif ult even to suppose that they were assigned on any com-
prehens..¢ scheme of thought. Why are tui and k’an used to repre-
sent water in different conditions, while k’an, moreover, represents
3 INTRODUCTION . 351

FU-HSI'S TRIGRAMS

Water, collected
the sun.

as in a marsh or lake.
Fire, as in lightning;
uds, springs, streams,

Water, as in rain,
and defiles. The moon.

=
TE
o
QV
3
I a
=

Untiring
strength; power.
Pleasure;
complacent
satisfaction.
Brightness;
elegance.
exciting power.
Flexibility;
penetration.
Peril; difficulty. | £ {clo

Resting; the act
of arresting.

Capaciousness;
submission.

 

the moon? How is sun set apart to represent things so different as
wind and wood? At a very early time the Chinese spoke of ‘the
five elements,’ meaning water, fire, wood, metal, and earth; but the
trigrams were not made to indicate them, and it is the general
opinion that there is no reference to them in the /'.

Again, the attributes assigned to the trigrams are learned mainly
from this Appendix and the fifth. We do not readily get familiar
with them, nor easily accept them all. It is impossible for us to tell
whether they were a part of the jargon of divination before King
Wen, or had grown up between his time and that of the author of
the Appendixes.

King Wen altered the arrangement of the trigrams so that not
one of them should stand at the same point of the compass as in the
ancient plan. He made them also representative of certain relations
among themselves, as if they composed a family of parents and
children. It will be sufficient at present to give a table of his scheme.

There is thus before us the apparatus with which the writer of
the Appendix accomplishes his task. Let me select one of the

shortest instances of his work. The fourteenth hexagram is =

 

 

Y

called Ta Yu, and meaning ‘Possessing in great abundance.” King

Wen saw in it the symbol of a government prosperous and realis-

Ing all its proper objects; but all that he wrote on it was “Ta Yu
! See Chao I's Hai Yu Ts'ung Ch'ao, Book 1, art. 3 (1790).
352 LEGcGE’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION
;

.

KING WEN’S TRIGRAMS

Oldest
daughter.

- Oldest son.

Zz
m

\
EE
oo
Oo bo
%3
ns

Youngest
son.
Youngest
daughter

 

(indicates) great progress and success.” Unfolding that view of its
significance, the Appendix says: —

‘In Ta Yu the weak (line) has the place of honour, is grandly
central, and (the strong lines) above and below respond to it.
Hence comes its name of “Possession of what is great.” The at-
tributes (of its constituent trigrams, ch’ien and li) are strength
and vigour, elegance and brightness. (The ruling line in it) re-
sponds to (the ruling line in the symbol of) heaven, and its act-
ings are (consequently all) at the proper times. Thus it is that it
is said to indicate great progress and success.’

In a similar way the paragraphs on all the other 63 hexagrams
are gone through; and, for the most part, with saccess. The convic-
tion grows upon the student that the writer has on the whole ap-
prehended the mind of King Wen.

I stated that the name kuei-shen occurs in this Appendix. It has
not yet, however, received the semi-physical, semi-metaphysical
signification which the comparatively modern scholars of the Sung
dynasty give to it. There are two passages where it is found; —the
second paragraph on Chien, the fifteenth hexagram, and the third
on Feng, the fifty-fifth. By consulting them the reader will be able
to form an opinion for himself. The term ue: denotes specially the
human spirit disembodied, and shen is used for spirits whose seat
is in heaven. I do not see my way to translate them, when used
binomially together, otherwise than by spiritual beings or spiritual
agents.

Chu Hsi once had the following question suggested by the sec-
ond of these passages put to him: — ‘Kuei-shen is a name for the
traces of making and transformation; but when it is said that (the
interaction of) heaven and earth is now vigorous and abundant,
and now dull and void, growing and diminishing according to the
seasons, that constitutes the traces of making and transformation;
2 INTRODUCTION 353

why should the writer further speak of the Kuei-shen?’ He replied,
‘When he uses the style of “heaven and earth,” he is speaking of the
result generally; but in ascribing it to the Kuei-shen, he is repre-
senting the traces of their effective interaction, as if there were
men (that is, some personal agency) bringing it about.” This solu-
tion merely explains the language away. When we come to the
fifth Appendix, we shall understand better the views of the period
when these treatises were produced.

The single character she is used in explaining the t'uan on Kuan,
the twentieth hexagram, where we read: —

‘In Kuan we see the spirit-like way of heaven, through which
the four seasons proceed without error. The sages, in accordance
with (this) spirit-like way, laid down their instructions, and all
under heaven yield submission to them.’

The author of the Appendix delights to dwell on the changing
phenomena taking place between heaven and earth, and which he
attributes to their interaction; and he was penetrated evidently
with a sense of the harmony between the natural and spiritual
worlds. It is this sense, indeed, which vivifies both the t'uan and
the explanation of them.

5. We proceed to the second Appendix, which professes to do
for the duke of Chou’s symbolical exposition of the several lines
what the T'uan Chuan does for the entire figures. The work here,
however, is accomplished with less trouble and more briefly. The
whole bears the name of Hsiang Chuan, ‘Treatise on the Symbols’
or ‘Treatise on the Symbolism (of the /).” If there were reason to
think that it came in any way from Confucius, I should fancy that
I saw him sitting with a select class of his disciples around him.
They read the duke’s Text column after column, and the master
drops now a word or two, and now a sentence or two, that illumi-
nate the meaning. The disciples take notes on their tablets, or store
his remarks in their memories, and by and by they write them out
with the whole of the Text or only so much of it as is necessary.
Whoever was the original lecturer, the Appendix, I think, must
have grown up in this way.

It would not be necessary to speak of it at greater length, if it
were not that the six paragraphs on the symbols of the duke of
Chou are always preceded by one which is called ‘the Great Sym-

1 See the ‘Collected Comments’ on hexagram 55 in the K'ang-hsi edition of the 7 (App. I). ‘The
traces of making and transformation’ mean the ever-changing phenomena of growth and decay. Our
phrase ‘Vestiges of Creation’ might be used to translate the Chinese characters, See the remarks
of the late Dr. Medhurst on the hexagrams 15 and 55 in his ‘Dissertation on the Theology of the
Chinese, pp. 107-112. In hexagram 15, Canon McClatchie for kuei-shen gives ‘gods and demons;
in hexagram 55, ‘the Demon-gods.’
354 , LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTg,

bolism,” and treats of the trigrams composing the hexagram, hy,
they go together to form the six-lined figure, and how the;
blended meaning appears in the institutions and proceedings of
the great men and kings of former days, and of the superior mg,
of all time. The paragraph is for the most part, but by no meay;
always, in harmony with the explanation of the hexagram by King
Wen, and a place in the Tuan Chuan would be more appropriate
to it. I suppose that, because it always begins with the mention of
the two symbolical trigrams, it is made, for the sake of the sym.
metry, to form a part of the treatise on the Symbolism of the /.

I will give a few examples of the paragraphs of the Great Sym.
bolism. The first hexagram, is formed by a repetition of
the trigram Ch’ien, ===, representing heaven, and it is said on

“it: — ‘Heaven in its motion (gives) the idea of strength. The superior
man, in accordance with this, nerves himself to ceaseless activity.

 

 

 

The second hexagram, = = is formed by a repetition of the
trigram K'un, = =, representing the earth, and it is said on it:-
“The capacious receptivity of the earth is what is denoted by Kun.
The superior man, in accordance with this, with his large virtue,
supports men and things.’

The forty-fourth hexagram, called Kou, =, is formed by

the trigrams Sun, ===, representing wind, and Ch’ien,
representing heaven or the sky, and it is said on it: — (The symbol
of) wind, beneath that of the sky, forms Kou. In accordance with
this, the sovereign distributes his charges, and promulgates his
announcements throughout the four quarters (of the kingdom).
The fifty-ninth hexagram, called Huan, ==
trigrams Chen, ==, representing water, and Sun, ===, repr¢
senting wind, and it is said on it: ‘(The symbol of) water and
(that of wind) above it form Huan. The ancient kings, in accord
ance with this, presented offerings to God, and established the
ancestral temple.’ The union of the two trigrams suggested to King
Wen the idea of dissipation in the alienation of men from the Su-
preme Power, and of the minds of parents from their children; 2
condition which the wisdom of the ancient kings saw could best
be met by the influences of religion. ,
One more example. The twenty-sixth hexagram, called Ta Ch"
, is formed of the trigrams Ch’ien, representing heaven of
the sky, and Ken, ==, representing a mountain, and it is said
on it: — (The symbol of) heaven in the midst of a mountain for ms
Ta Ch'u. The superior man, in accordance with this, stores largely
in his memory the words of former men and their conduct, 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2 INTRODUCTION 355

subserve the accumulation of his virtue.” We are ready to exclaim

and ask, ‘Heaven, the sky, in the midst of a mountain! Can there

be such a thing?’ and Chu Hsi will tell us in reply, ‘No, there can-

not be such a thing in reality; but you can conceive it for the pur-
ose of the symbolism.’

From this and the other examples adduced from the Great Sym-
bolism, it is clear that, so far as its testimony bears on the subject,
the trigrams of Fu-hsi did not receive their form and meaning with
a deep intention that they should serve as the basis of a philosophi-
cal scheme concerning the constitution of heaven and earth and all
that is in them. In this Appendix they are used popularly, just as
one

‘Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Sermons in stones, and good in everything.’

The writer moralises from them in an edifying manner. There is
ingenuity, and sometimes Instruction also, in what he says, but
there is no mystery. Chinese scholars and gentlemen, however,
who have got some little acquaintance with western science, are
fond of saying that all the truths of electricity, heat, light, and other
branches of European physics, are in the eight trigrams. When
asked how then they and their countrymen have been and are ig-
norant of those truths, they say that they have to learn them first
from western books, and then, looking into the /, they see that they
were all known to Confucius more than 2000 years ago. The vain
assumption thus manifested is childish; and until the Chinese drop
their hallucination about the 7 as containing all things that have
ever been dreamt of in all philosophies, it will prove a stumbling-
block to them, and keep them from entering on the true path of
science,

6. We go on to the third Appendix in two sections, being the
fifth and sixth ‘wings,’ and forming what is called ‘The Great
Treatise.” It will appear singular to the reader, as it has always
done to myself, that neither in the Text nor in the first two Ap-
Pendixes, does the character called /, which gives its name to the
classic, once appear. It is the symbol of ‘change,’ and is formed
from the character for ‘the sun’ placed over that for ‘the moon?’
AAs the sun gives place to the moon, and the moon to the sun, so
1s change always proceeding in the phenomena of nature and the
Cxperiences of society. We meet with the character nearly fifty
mes in this Appendix; —applied most commonly to the Text of
ur classic, so that I Ching or I Shu is ‘the Classic or Book of

! 2 - H. the sun, placed over 273. a form of the old D - CD. the moon.
356 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

Changes.’ It is also applied often to the changes in the lines of the
figures, made by the manipulations of divination, apart from any
sentence or oracle concerning them delivered by King Wen or his
son. There is therefore the system of the J as well as the book of
the /. The definition of the name which is given in one paragraph
will suit them both:—‘Production and reproduction is what is
called (the process of) change!’ In nature there is no vacuum,
When anything is displaced, what displaces it takes the empty
room. And in the lineal figures, the strong and the weak lines push
each other out.

Now the remarkable thing asserted is, that the changes in the
lines of the figures and the changes of external phenomena show
a wonderful harmony and concurrence. We read: —

‘The J was made on a principle of accordance with heaven
and earth, and shows us therefore, without rent or confusion,
the course (of things) in heaven and earth?.’

‘There is a similarity between the sage and heaven and earth;
and hence there is no contrariety in him to them. His knowledge
embraces all things, and his course is intended to be helpful to
all under the sky; and therefore he falls into no error. He acts
according to the exigency of circumstances, without being car-
ried away by their current; he rejoices in Heaven, and knows
its ordinations; and hence he has no anxieties. He rests in his
own (present) position, and cherishes the spirit of generous
benevolence; and hence he can love (without reserve)3.’

‘(Through the /) he embraces, as in a mould or enclosure, the
transformations of heaven and earth without any error; by an
ever-varying adaptation he completes (the nature of) all things
without exception; he penetrates to a knowledge of the course
of day and night (and all other correlated phenomena). It is thus
that his operation is spirit-like, unconditioned by place, while
the changes (which he produces) are not restricted to any form.

One more quotation: —

“The sage was able to survey all the complex phenomena
under the sky. He then considered in his mind how they could
be figured, and (by means of the diagrams) represented theif
material forms and their character.’

All that is thus predicted of the sage, or ancient sages, though

1 IHL, i, 29 (chap. 5. 6).
2 IT, i, 20 (chap. 4. 1).
3 TIL i, 22.

TI, i, 38 (chap. 8. 1).
2 INTRODUCTION 357

the writer probably had Fu-hsi in his mind, is more than suffi-
ciently extravagant, and reminds us of the language in ‘the Doc-
trine of the Mean,’ that ‘the sage, able to assist the transforming
and nourishing powers of heaven and earth, may with heaven and
earth form a ternion!.’

I quoted largely, in the second chapter, from this Appendix the
accounts which it gives of the formation of the lineal figures. There
is no occasion to return to that subject. Let us suppose the figures
formed. They seem to have the significance, when looked at from
certain points of view, which have been determined for us by King
Wen and the duke of Chou. But this does not amount to divina-
tion. How can the lines be made to serve this purpose? The Ap-
pendix professes to tell us.

Before touching on the method which it describes, let me ob-
serve that divination was practised in China from a very early
time. I will not say 5,200 years ago, in the days of Fu-hsi, for I
cannot repress doubts of his historical personality; but as soon as
we tread the borders of something like credible history, we find
it existing. In the Shu Ching, in a document that purports to be
of the twenty-third century B.c.2, divination by means of the tor-
totse-shell 1s mentioned; and somewhere later we find that method
continuing, and also divination by the lineal figures, manipulated
by means of the stalks of a plant?, the Prarmica Sibirica®, which is
still cultivated on and about the grave of Confucius, where I have
myself seen it growing.

The object of the divination, it should be acknowledged, was not
to discover future events absolutely, as if they could be known
beforehand? but to ascertain whether certain schemes, and condi-
tions of events contemplated by the consulter, would turn out
luckily or unluckily. But for the actual practice the stalks of the

! Doctrine of the Mean, chap. xxii.
* The Shu IL, ii, 18.
3 The Shu V, iv, 20, 31.

* See Williams’ Syllabic Dictionary on the character .
* Canon McClatchie (first paragraph of his Introduction) says: — The / is regarded by the Chinese
With peculiar veneration . . . . as containing a mine of knowledge, which, if it were possible to fathom

1t thoroughly, would, in their estimation, enable the fortunate possessor to foretell all future events.’
his misstatement does not surprise me so much as that Morrison, generally accurate on such

points, should say (Dictionary, Part I}, i, p. 1020, on the character Jy ):—*Of the odd and even

Numbers, the kwa or lines of Fu-hsi are the visible signs; and it being assumed that these signs
answer to the things signified, and from a knowledge of all the various combinations of numbers,
a knowledge of all possible occurrences in nature may be previously known." The whole article
from which | take this sentence is inaccurately written. The language of the Appendix on the

Nowledge of the future given by the use of the / is often incautious, and a cursory reader may be
Misled; to a careful student, however, the meaning is plain. The second passage of the Shu, referred
10 above, treats of ‘the Examination of Doubts,’ and concludes thus: — ‘When the tortoisc-shell and
the statks are both opposed to the views of men, there will be good fortune in stillness, and active
Operations will be unlucky.’
358 LEGcGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIQy

plant were necessary; and I am almost afraid to write that this Ap,
pendix teaches that they were produced by Heaven of such a na.
ture as to be fit for the purpose. ‘Heaven,’ it says, in the 73rd para.
graph of Section i, quoted above on p. 336, ‘Heaven produced the
spirit-like things.” The things were the tortoise and the plant, and
in paragraph 68, the same quality of being shen, or ‘spirit-like,’ is
ascribed to them. Occasionally, in the field of Chinese literature,
we meet with doubts as to the efficacy of divination, and the folly
of expecting any revelation of the character of the future from an
old tortoise-shell and a handful of withered twigs!; but when this
Appendix was made, the writer had not attained to so much com-
mon sense. The stalks were to him ‘spirit-like,” possessed of a
subtle and invisible virtue that fitted them for use in divining.
Given the stalks with such virtue, the process of manipulating
them so as to form the lineal figures is described (Section i, chap. 9,
parr. 49-58), but it will take the student much time and thought
to master the various operations. Forty-nine stalks were employed,
which were thrice manipulated for each line, so that it took eigh-
teen manipulations to form a hexagram. The lines were determined
by means of the numbers derived from the River Map or scheme.
Odd numbers gave strong or undivided lines, and even numbers
gave the weak or divided. An important part was played in com-
bining the lines, and forming the hexagrams by the four emble-
matic symbols, to which the numbers 9, 8, 7, 6 were appropriated®.
The figures having been formed, recourse was had for their in-
terpretation to the t'uan of King Wen, and the emblematic sen-
tences of the duke of Chou. This was all the part which numbers
played in the divination by the /, helping the operator to make up
his lineal figure. An analogy has often been asserted between the
numbers of the / and the numbers of Pythagoras; and certainly
we might make ten, and more than ten, antinomies from these

! A remarkable instance is given by Liu Chi (of the Ming dynasty, in the fifteenth century) in 2
story about Shao Phing, who had been marquis of Tung-ling in the time of Ch'in, but was degraded
under Han. Having gone once to Ssu-ma Chi-chu, one of the most skilful diviners of the country,
and wishing to know whether there would be a brighter future for him, Ssu-ma said, ‘Ah! is it the
way of Heaven to love any (partially)? Heaven loves only the virtuous. What intelligence is pos
sessed by spirits? They are intelligent (only) by their connexion with men. The divining stalks
are so much withered grass; the tortoise-shell is a withered bone. They are but things, and man is
more intelligent than things. Why not listen to yourself instead of seeking (to learn) from things?’
The whole piece is in many of the collections of Ku Wen, or Elegant Writing.

2 These numbers are commonly derived from the River Scheme, in the outer sides of which
are the corresponding marks: — oe eee 0®, opposite to @ 8 0000000, opposite tO;
00000000, opposite to 00 ®®; and 006060004, opposite to OOO. Hence the
number 6 is assigned to === ===, 7 to =====, 8 to ==-===, and 9 to ===—=. Hence also,
in connexion with the formation of the figures by manipulation of the stalks, 9 becomes the
number symbolical of the undivided line, as representing Ch'ien, S=====, and 6 of the divided
line as representing K'un,== Z==. But the late delineation of the map renders all this uncertain,
so far as the scheme is concerned. The numbers of the hsiang, however, may have been fixed, must
have been fixed indeed, at an early period.

 
; INTRODUCTION 359

A pendixes in startling agreement with the ten principia of the
pythagoreans. But if Aristotle was correct in holding that Pythag-
oras regarded numbers as entities, and maintained that Number
was the Beginning (Principle, &px7) of things, the cause of their
material existence, and of their modifications and different states,
then the doctrine of the philosopher of Samos was different from
that of the I, in which numbers come in only as aids in divining
to form the hexagrams. Of course all divination is vain, nor is the
method of the I less absurd than any other. The Chinese them-
selves have given it up in all circles above those of the professional
quacks, and yet their scholars continue to maintain the unfathom-
able science and wisdom of these appended treatises!

It is in this Appendix that we first meet with the names yin
and yang? of which I have spoken briefly. Up to this point, in-
stead of them, the names for the two elementary forms of the lines
have been kang and zhuu, which I have translated by ‘strong and
weak,” and which also occur here ten times. The following attempt
to explain these different names appears in the fifth Appendix,
paragraph 4: —

‘Anciently when the sages made the /, it was with the design
that its figures should be in conformity with the principles un-
derlying the natures (of men and things), and the ordinances
appointed (for them by Heaven). With this view they exhibited
in them the way of heaven, calling (the lines) yin and yang; the
way of earth, calling them the strong (or hard) and the weak (or
soft); and the way of man, under the names of benevolence and
righteousness. Each (trigram) embraced those three Powers, and
being repeated, its full form consisted of six lines.’

However difficult it may be to make what is said here intel-
ligible, it confirms what I have affirmed of the significance of the
Names yin and yang, as meaning bright and dark, derived from the
Properties of the sun and moon. We may use for these adjectives
3 variety of others, such as active and inactive, masculine and
feminine, hot and cold, more or less analogous to them; but there
arise the important questions,—Do we find yang and yin not
Merely used to indicate the quality of what they are applied to,

ut at the same time with substantival force, denoting what has
#the quality which the name denotes? Had the doctrine of a pri-
Mary matter of an ethereal nature, now expanding and showing
"self full of activity and power as yang, now contracting and be-
se the account of Pythagoras and his philosophy in Lewes’ History of Philosophy, pp. 18-38

* See Section i, 24, 32, 35; Section ii, 28, 29, 30, 35.
360 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTIQy

coming weak and inactive as yin: —had this doctrine become mat.
ter of speculation when this Appendix was written? The Chines;
critics and commentators for the most part assume that it had
P. Regis, Dr. Medhurst, and other foreign Chinese scholars repeat
their statements without question. I have sought in vain for proof
of what is asserted. It took more than a thousand years after the
closing of the / to fashion in the Confucian school the doctrine of
a primary matter. We do not find it fully developed till the era of
the Sung dynasty, and in our eleventh and twelfth centuries. To
find it in the ] is the logical, or rather illogical, error of putting
‘the last first” Neither creation nor cosmogony was before the
mind of the author whose work I am analysing. His theme is the

I,—the ever-changing phenomena of nature and experience. There
is nothing but this in the ‘Great Treatise’ to task our powers; —-
nothing deeper or more abstruse.

As in the first Appendix, so in this, the name kuei-shen occurs
twice; in paragraphs 21 and 50 of Section i. In the former instance,
each part of the name has its significance. Kuei denotes the animal
soul or nature, and Shen, the intellectual soul, the union of which
constitutes the living rational man. I have translated them, it will
be seen, by ‘the anima and the animus.” Canon McClatchie gives
for them ‘demons and gods;’ and Dr. Medhurst said on the passage,
“The kuei-shens are evidently the expanding and contracting prin-
ciples of human life. . . . The kuei-shens are brought about by
the dissolution of the human frame, and consist of the expanding
and ascending shen, which rambles about in space, and of the con-
tracted and shrivelled kuei, which reverts to earth and nonenti

This is pretty much the same view as my own, though I would
not here use the phraseology of ‘expanding and contracting’
Canon McClatchie is consistent with himself, and renders the
characters by ‘demons and gods.’

! As a specimen of what the ablest Sung scholars teach, I may give the remarks (from the ‘Col
lected Comments’) of Chu Chen (of the same century as Chu Hsi, rather earlier) on the 4th para
graph of Appendix V :—In the / there is the Great Extreme. When we speak of the yin and yang
we mean the air (or ether) collected in the Great Void. When we speak of the Hard and Soft, we
mean that ether collected, and formed into substance. Benevolence and righteousness have theif
origin in the great void, are seen in the ether substantiated, and move under the influence of con
scious intelligence. Looking at the one origin of all things we speak of their nature; looking at the
endowments given to them, we speak of the ordinations appointed (for them). Looking at them as
{divided into) heaven, earth, and men, we speak of their principle. The three are one and the same.
The sages wishing that (their figures) should be in conformity with the principles underlying the
natures {of men and things) and the ordinances appointed (for them), called them (now) yin and
yang, (now) the hard and the soft, (now) benevolence and righteousness, in order thereby to exhibit
the ways of heaven, earth, and men; it is a view of them as related together. The trigrams of the /
contain the three Powers; and when they are doubled into hexagrams, there the three Powers unite
and are one. But there are the changes and movements of their (several) ways, and therefore there
are separate places for the yin and yang, and reciprocal uses of the hard and the soft.”

? Dissertation on the Theology of the Chinese, pp. 111, 112.
; INTRODUCTION 361

In the latter passage it is more difficult to determine the exact
peaning. The writer says, that ‘by the odd numbers assigned to
heaven and the even numbers assigned to earth, the changes and
ransformations are effected, and the spirit-like agencies kept in
movement; meaning that by means of the numbers the spirit-like
lines might be formed on a scale sufficient to give a picture of all
the changing phenomena, taking place, as if by a spiritual agency,
in nature. Medhurst contents himself on it with giving the expla-
pation of Chu Hsi, that ‘the kuei-shens refer to the contractions
and expandings, the recedings and approachings of the productive
and completing powers of the even and odd numbers!” Canon
McClatchie does not follow his translation of the former passage
and give here ‘demons and gods,’ but we have ‘the Demon-god
(ie. Shang Ti. I shall refer to this version when considering the
fifth Appendix.

The single character shen occurs more than twenty times; —
used now as a substantive, now as an adjective, and again as a verb.
I must refer the reader to the translation and notes for its various
significance, subjoining in a note a list of the places where it
occurs3,

Much more might be said on the third Appendix, for the writer
touches on many other topics, antiquarian and speculative, but a
review of them would help us little in the study of the leading sub-
ject of the /. In passing on to the next treatise, I would only further
say that the style of this and the author’s manner of presenting his
thoughts often remind the reader of ‘the Doctrine of the Mean.” I
am surprised that ‘the Great Treatise’ has never been ascribed to
the author of that Doctrine, Tsze-ssu, the grandson of Confucius,
whose death must have taken place between B.c. 400 and 450.

7. The fourth Appendix, the seventh ‘wing’ of the /, need not
detain us long. As I stated, it is confined to an exposition of the
Text on the first and second hexagrams, being an attempt to show
that what is there affirmed of heaven and earth may also be applied
'0 man, and that there is an essential agreement between the quali-
ties ascribed to them, and the benevolence, righteousness, pro-
Priety, and wisdom, which are the four constituents of his moral
and intellectual nature.

It is said by some of the critics that Confucius would have
eased all the other hexagrams in a similar way, if his life had

en prolonged, but we found special grounds for denying that

nfucius had anything to do with the composition of this Ap-

+ Theology of the Chinese, p. 122.

1. 20slation of the / Ching, p. 312.
ction §, 23, 32, 57, 58, 62, 64, 67, 68, 69, 73, 76, 81; Section ii, 11, 15, 33, 34,41, 45.
362 LeGGe’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCT,

pendix; and, moreover, I cannot think of any other figure the!
would have afforded to the author the same opportunity of di,
coursing about man. The style and method are after the Many
of ‘the Doctrine of the Mean’ quite as much as those of ‘the Gre,
Treatise.’ Several paragraphs, moreover, suggest to us the magnik,
quence of Mencius. It is said, for instance, by Tsze-ssu, of th
sage, that ‘he is the equal or correlate of Heaven,’ and in this Ap
pendix we have the sentiment expanded into the following: —

  
  
   

‘The great man is he who is in harmony in his attributes wit,
heaven and earth; in his brightness with the sun and moon; i,
his orderly procedure with the four seasons; and in his relatio,
to what is fortunate and what is calamitous with the spirit,
agents. He may precede Heaven, and Heaven will not act in
opposition to him; he may follow Heaven, but will act only
Heaven at the time would do. If Heaven will not act in oppos-
tion to him, how much less will man! how much less will the
spiritual agents?!’

One other passage may receive our consideration: —

“The family that accumulates goodness is sure to have super
abundant happiness, and the family that accumulates evil i
sure to have superabundant misery®.’

The language makes us think of the retribution of good and evi
as taking place in the family, and not in the individual; the judg-
ment is long deferred, but it is inflicted at last, lighting, however
not on the head or heads that most deserved it. Confucianism neve!
falters in its affirmation of the difference between good and evil.
and that each shall have its appropriate recompense; but it has
little to say of the where and when and how that recompense will
be given. The old classics are silent on the subject of any other
retribution besides what takes place in time. About the era of Cot
fucius the view took definite shape that, if the issues of good an
evil, virtue and vice, did not take effect in the experience of tht
individual, they would certainly do so in that of his posterity. This
is the prevailing doctrine among the Chinese at the present day:
and one of the earliest expressions, perhaps the earliest expre
sion, of it was in the sentence under our notice that has been copi¢
from this Appendix into almost every moral treatise that circulat
in China. A wholesome and an important truth it is, that ‘the sins
of par€nts are visited on their children;’ but do the parents the®”

1 Chung-yung xxxi, 4.

* Section i, 34. This is the only paragraph where duei-shen occurs.
3 Section ii, 5.
) [NTRODUCTION 363

[ves €SCape the curse? It is to be regretted that this short treatise,
The only ‘wing’ of the / professing to set forth its teachings con-
; erning man as man, does not attempt any definite reply to this

seston. I leave it, merely observing that it has always struck me
as the result of an after-thought, and a wish to give to man, as the
ast of ‘the Three Powers,” a suitable place in connexion with the /.
The doctrine of ‘the Three Powers’ is as much out of place in Con-
fucianism as that of ‘the Great Extreme.” The treatise contains
several paragraphs interesting in themselves, but it adds nothing
to our understanding of the Text, or even of the object of the ap-

ended treatises, when we try to look at them as a whole.

8. It is very different with the fifth of the Appendixes, which
is made up of ‘Remarks on the Trigrams.’ It is shorter than the
fourth, consisting of only 22 paragraphs, in some of which the
author rises to a height of thought reached nowhere else in these
treatises, while several of the others are so silly and trivial, that it
is difficult, not to say impossible, to believe that they are the pro-
duction of the same man. We find in it the earlier and later ar-
rangement of the trigrams,—the former, that of Fu-hsi, and the
latter, that of King Wen; their names and attributes; the work of
God in nature, described as a progress through the trigrams; and
finally a distinctive, but by no means exhaustive, list of the natural
objects, symbolised by them.

It commences with the enigmatic declaration that ‘Anciently,
when the sages made the /;” (that is, the lineal figures, and the sys-
tem of divination by them), ‘in order to give mysterious assistance
to the spiritual Intelligences, they produced (the rules for the use
of) the divining plant.” Perhaps this means no more than that the
lineal figures were made to ‘hold the mirror up to nature,’ so that
Men by the study of them would understand more of the unseen
and spiritual operations, to which the phenomena around them
Were owing, than they could otherwise do.

The author goes on to speak of the Fu-hsi trigrams, and passes
from them to those of King Wen in paragraph 8. That and the fol-
Wing two are very remarkable; but before saying anything of
ther, I will go on to the 14th, which is the only passage that af-

ods any ground for saying that there is a mythology in the I. It
ays: —

‘Chien is (the symbol of) heaven, and hence is styled father.
K'un is (the symbol of) earth, and hence is styled mother. Chen
(shows) the first application (of k’'un to ch’ien), resulting in get-
ting (the first of) its male (or undivided lines), and hence we call
It the oldest son. Sun (shows) a first application (of ch'ien to
364 LEGGE’s PREFACE AND INTRODY
Cig

     
    
   
   
 
 
 

Kun), resulting in getting (the first of) its female (or divi,
lines), and hence we call it the oldest daughter. Kan (showy’
second application (of kK’'un to ch’ien, and Li a second (of hie
to k'un), resulting in the second son and second daughter. I
Chen and Tui we have a third application (of k'un to ch’ien 4,
of chien to Kun), resulting in the youngest son and young
daughter.’

From this language has come the fable of a marriage betwey
Ch’ien and K’un, from which resulted the six other trigrams, co
sidered as their three sons and three daughters; and it is not to}
wondered at, if some men of active and ill-regulated imagination
should see Noah and his wife in those two primary trigrams, an
in the others their three sons and the three sons’ wives. Have wd
not in both cases an ogdoad? But I have looked in the paragrap!
in vain for the notion of a marriage-union between heaven an
earth.

It does not treat of the genesis of the other six trigrams by th
union of the two, but is a rude attempt to explain their form
when they were once existing!. According to the idea of changes
Ch’ien and K'un are continually varying their forms by their ir
teraction. As here represented, the other trigrams are not ‘pre
duced?’ by a marriage-union, but from the application, literally tht
seeking, of one of them — of K’un as much as of Chien ~ addressed
to the others.

This way of speaking of the trigrams, moreover, as father ant
mother, sons and daughters, is not so old as Fu-hsi; nor have
any real proof that it originated with King Wen. It is not of ‘the
highest antiquity.” It arose some time in ‘middle antiquity,’ and
was known in the era of the Appendixes; but it had not prevaile
then nor has it prevailed since, to discredit and supersede the older
nomenclature. We are startled when we come on it in the plac
which it occupies. And there it stands alone. It is not entitled tw
more attention than the two paragraphs that precede it, or the eight
that follow it, none of which were thought by P. Regis worthy ©
be translated. I have just said that it stands ‘alone.’ Its existence
however, seems to me to be supposed in the fourth chapter, par®
1 This view seems to be in accordance with that of Wu Ch’eng (of the Yiian dynasty), as given?
the ‘Collected Comments’ of the K'ang-hsi edition. The editors express their approval of it in pre

erence to the interpretation of Chu Hsi, who understood the whole to refer to the formation ©
lineal figures, the ‘application’ being ‘the manipulation of the stalks to find the proper line.’

2 But the Chinese term sheng 2 , often rendered ‘produced,’ must not be pressed, so as wd
termine the method of production, oT the way in which one thing comes from another. or

3 The significance of the mythological paragraph is altogether lost in Canon McClatchie’s 1
sion: —‘Ch’ien is Heaven, and hence he is called Father; K'un is Earth, and hence she is cal
Mother; Chen is the first male, and hence he is called the eldest son,’ &c. &c.
; INTRODUCTION 365

aphs 28-30, of the third Appendix, Section ii; but there only
the trigrams of ‘the six children’ are mentioned, and nothing is said
of ‘the parents.’ Chen, Kan, and ken are referred to as being yang,
and sun, li, and tui as being yin. What is said about them is trifling
ond fanciful.

Leaving the question of the mythology of the /, of which I am
myself unable to discover a trace, I now call attention to para-
graphs 8-10, where the author speaks of the work of God in nature
in all the year as a progress through the trigrams, and as being ef-
fected by His Spirit. The description assumes the peculiar ar-
rangement of the trigrams, ascribed to King Wen, and which I
have exhibited above!. Father Regis adopts the general view of
Chinese critics that Wen purposely altered the earlier and es-
tablished arrangement, as a symbol of the disorganisation and dis-
order into which the kingdom had fallen. But it is hard to say why
aman did something more than 3000 years ago, when he has not
himself said anything about it. So far as we can judge from this
Appendix, the author thought that King Wen altered the existing
order and position of the trigrams with regard to the cardinal
points, simply for the occasion,—that he might set forth vividly
his ideas about the springing, growth, ahd maturity in the vege-
table kingdom from the labours of spring to the cessation from toil
in winter. The marvel is that in doing this he brings God upon the
scene, and makes Him in the various processes of nature the ‘all
and in all.’

The 8th paragraph says: —

‘God comes forth in Chen (to his producing work); He brings
(His processes) into full and equal action in Sun; they are mani-
fested to one another in Li; the greatest service is done for Him
in K’un; He rejoices in Tui; He struggles in Ch’ien; He is com-
forted and enters into rest in Kan; and he completes (the work
of) the year in Ken.’

God is here named Ti, for which P. Regis gives the Latin ‘Su-
Premus Imperator,” and Canon McClatchie, after him, ‘the Su-
Preme Emperor.’ I contend that ‘God’ is really the correct trans-

' The reader will understand the difference in the two arrangements better by a reference to the
Siteular representations of them on Plate 111.

Eg. 1, 23, 24: ‘Observant etiam philosophi (lib. 15 Sinicae philosophiae Sing-li) principem
ipa antiquum octo symbolorum, unde aliae figurae omnes pendent, ordinem invertisse; quo
gene Imperii suis temporibus subversio graphice exprimi poterat, mutatis e nawrali loco, quem
teri | dederat, iis quatuor figuris, quae rerum naturalium pugnis ac dissociationibus, ‘quas pos-
vor labentis anni pars afferre solet, velut in antecessum, repraesentandis idoneae videbantur;
ia symbolum === Li, ignis, supponatur loco symboli ==—== K'an, aquae, utriusque

enti inordinatio principi visa est non minus apta ad significandas ruinas et clades reipublicae

a) . . % . .
tion, ordinatae, quam naturales ab hieme aut imminente aut saeviente rerum generatarum corrup-
es.

 
366 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTY,

lation in English of Ti; but to render it here by ‘Emperor’ wou);
not affect the meaning of the paragraph. Chu Hsi says that ‘by 1,
is intended the Lord and Governor of heaven; and K'ung Ying,
about five centuries earlier than Chu, quotes Wang Pi, who dj

A.D. 249, to the effect that ‘Ti is the lord who produces (all) thing
the author of prosperity and increase.’

I must refer the reader to the translation in the body of the vg.
ume for the 9th paragraph, which is too long to be introduced here,
As the 8th speaks directly of God, the 9th, we are told, ‘speaks of
all things following Him, from spring to winter from the east t
the north, in His progress throughout the year.” In words strik
ingly like those of the apostle Paul, when writing his Epistle to the
Romans, Wan Ch’ung-tsung (of the K’ang-hsi period) and his son,
in their admirable work called, ‘A New Digest of Collected Ex.
planations of the I Ching,’ say: —‘God (Himself) cannot be seen:
we see Him in the things (which He produces).” The first time!
read these paragraphs with some understanding, I thought of
Thomson’s Hymn on the Seasons, and I have thought of it in con-
nexion with them a hundred times since. Our English poet
wrote: —

“These, as they change, Almighty Father, these
Are but the varied God. The rolling year

Is full of Thee. Forth in the pleasing spring
Thy beauty walks, Thy tenderness and love.
Then comes Thy glory in the summer months,
With light and heat refulgent. Then Thy sun
Shoots full perfection through the swelling year.
Thy bounty shines in autumn unconfined,

And spreads a common feast for all that lives.
In winter awful Thou!”

Prudish readers have found fault with some of Thomson's €¥
pressions, as if they savoured of pantheism. The language of th
Chinese writer in not open to the same captious objection. Without
poetic ornament, or swelling phrase of any kind, he gives emphati
testimony to God as renewing the face of the earth in spring, a0
not resting till He has crowned the year with His goodness.

And there is in the passage another thing equally wonderful
The 10th paragraph commences: — ‘When we speak of Spirit, ¥¢
mean the subtle presence (and operation of God) with all thing®
and the writer goes on to illustrate this sentiment from the actiof
and influences symbolised by the six ‘children,’ or minor trigrar™
— water and fire, thunder and wind, mountains and collections ©
water. Chu Hsi says, that there is that in the paragraph which
7 INTRODUCTION 367

does not understand. Some Chinese scholars, however, have not
peen far from descrying the light that is in it. Let Liang Yin, of our
fourteenth century, be adduced as an example of them. He says: —
“The spirit here simply means God. God is the personality (liter-
ally, the body or substantiality) of the Spirit; the Spirit is God in
operation. He who is lord over and rules all things is God; the
subtle presence and operation of God with all things is by His
Spirit.’ The language is in fine accord with the definition of shen
or spirit, given in the 3rd Appendix, Section i, 32.

I wish that the Treatise on the Trigrams had ended with the
10th paragraph. The writer had gradually risen to a noble eleva-
tion of thought from which he plunges into a slough of nonsensical
remarks which it would be difficult elsewhere to parallel. I have
referred to the judgment of P. Regis about them. He could not
receive them as from Confucius, and did not take the trouble to
translate them, and transfer them to his own pages. My plan re-
quired me to translate everything published in China as a part of
the 7 Ching; but 1 have given my reasons for doubting whether any
portion of these Appendixes be really from Confucius. There is
nothing that could better justify the supercilious disregard with
which the classical literature of China is frequently treated than
to insist on the concluding portion of this treatise as being from
the pencil of its greatest sage. I have dwelt at some length on the
14th paragraph, because of its mythological semblance; but among
the eight paragraphs that follow it, it would be difficult to award
the palm for silliness. They are descriptive of the eight trigrams,
and each one enumerates a dozen or more objects of which its sub-
ject is symbolical. The writer must have been fond of and familiar
with horses. Ch’ien, the symbol properly of heaven, suggests to
him the idea of a good horse; an old horse; a lean horse; and a pie-
bald. Chen, the symbol of thunder, suggests the idea of a good
neigher; of the horse with white hind-legs; of the prancing horse;
and of one with a white star in his forehead. K’an, the symbol of
Water, suggests the idea of the horse with an elegant spine; of one
with a high spirit; of one with a drooping head; and of one with a
shambling step. The reader will think he has had enough of these
Symbolisings of the trigrams. I cannot believe that the earlier
Portions and this concluding portion of the treatise were by the
Same author. If there were any evidence that paragraphs 8 to 10
Were by Confucius, I should say that they were worthy, even more
than worthy, of him; what follows is mere drivel. Horace’s picture
Amntly portrays the inconsistency between the parts: —

‘Desinit in piscem mulier formosa superne.’
368 LEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

In reviewing the second of these Appendixes, I was led.to speak
of the original significance of the trigrams, in opposition to the
views of some Chinese who pretend that they can find in them the
physical truths discovered by the researches of western science,
May I not say now, after viewing the phase of them presented in
these paragraphs, that they were devised simply as aids to divina-
tion, and partook of the unreasonableness and uncertainty belong.
ing to that?

9. The sixth Appendix is the Treatise on the Sequence of the
Hexagrams, to which allusion has been made more than once. It
is not necessary to dwell on it at length. King Wen, it has been
seen, gave a name to each hexagram, expressive of the idea — some
moral, social, or political truth — which he wished to set forth by
means of it; and this name enters very closely into its interpre-
tation. The author of this treatise endeavours to explain the mean-
ing of the name, and also the sequence of the figures, or how it is
that the idea of the one leads on to that of the next. Yet the reader
must not expect to find in the 64 a chain ‘of linked sweetness long
drawn out.” The connexion between any two is generally suffi-
ciently close; but on the whole the essays, which I have said they
form, resemble ‘a heap of orient pearls at random strung.’ The
changeableness of human affairs is a topic never long absent from
the writer's mind. He is firmly persuaded that ‘the fashion of the
world passeth away.’ Union is sure to give place to separation, and
by and by that separation will issue in re-union.

There is nothing in the treatise to suggest anything about its
authorship; and as the reader will see from the notes, we are per-
plexed occasionally by meanings given to the names that differ
from the meanings in the Text.

10. The last and least Appendix is the seventh, called Tsa Kua
Chuan, or ‘Treatise on the Lineal Figures taken promiscuously,’ —
not with regard to any sequence, but as they approximate, or are’
opposed, to one another in meaning. It is in rhyme, moreover, and
this, as much as the meaning, determined, no doubt, the grouping
of the hexagrams. The student will learn nothing of value from it;
itis more a ‘jeu d’esprit’ than anything else.
369

INTRODUCTION

?

PLATE |

THE HEXAGRAMS, in the order in which they appear in the |,

and were arranged by King Wen.

h’ien

ut,
N a

WHIT

al ly
“THE

MUI
Mm :

i q
“HHH

Hsiao

Il.
ae
5 Ul;
© WHE
~ | [JHE
|| We

=

| @

a

ian] on
~~ aa

Ie

E

| s
= =
— oO
| =

te
Ln &
= rad

TEE

. lll,
Will

2 LU]II

ah

TTP

fll] fl.

if

ofl}.

“HT
ils

oa o

“TH

| fle

2

ot a
a

Hits

= Mflifl:
= TN

Hi
TTP
WILLE
« o
on a
Hie

3
IIIs

ue)
TT

AMMAN Me
TT TE

il 2 on

Zon
iir=

i =
pad

oO
=< UO
6
ll e

~ JU

ll;
3
a

oo

=
“ull:

“| Ill;
HIE

ENS
aM
Cc

Hf

5 Ss
HN

G

If] s
> Ss
HU

‘ll Ii

a

[Mt -
“tll?

of JUNE.
i

oD s

3
aalllll:
t F
[lll 1°

Alls.
wt a“
Mr”

oll]
“HH

Mit
Hur
allt?

al | oon i 1.
“| We w | aA

fly tte
Hilt
Te
= vo
wy a
lint’

{UY
A

sl

 

shill

Me
inn
al ©
wn D
TH

=
pra

G

=

v

oll].
alll:
ILE
a §
A
TU fs
° 2
6 te
HITE
5
FP
20

=
€
- 5
SG

" i
N
oO

Te

alli
WUT

hhe
370

Fig. 1

PLATE Il

THE HEXAGRAMS, exhibited circularly and in a square,

-hsi.

according to the natural process of development

from the whole and divided lines, and the order of arrangement ascribed to Fu

LEeEGGE’S PREFACE AND INTRODUCTj,
10x

    

Bee e gS tenn

Sf. eo
% Myer
& 4
Ye, Yt “yr”
¢
“ng “py

Uy 4 |
syle NN A
oil Mie ll il
i is ills Ul Ui

HT
ml ne
allt qe AE A
Att He a
alt : uu |! ll tay! (Hl

‘ |
SO TET Ea
Ss.

 

 

 

 

 

 

no ~
SS
SSS

$ ee SS ae
@~ QW ss Sst =e
2 ae ee ee
ge & “Saltze
es 9 Sse
& & § 5 €
&
5
7 INTRODUCTION 371

£ E °
5 F £ gS
ee 5
rE
on many ~ &
——— ow wy AAS
ZEISS A
SASL &
Sava &F
SN o
NRE
NA
DN Xt

WN,
uN I Sol
\\ We
RIOR NN
BN
itd wlth bhi 1 ww
| i.
mW
inl filhl Tdi hy wie

i
il HH Hl Mil ui
mil
nin wel wie nn ml
Wy 1p ang na,
min
mi He nm Jim
Fy
1] Nl Il ll fm ‘
fd winked theeki th yl
’
oH |i | Mi i,
me i lll in vy ty
7
hn Hi i) mi jl 2 /
hd bd unl mw 40,7,
7
1,
V0 “Ye "4
£707
2.70 7.
L090
pA CX) 2 %
ne? % %»
T2222. 2
en 0 Tot z
Nn a WP
S==22 ¢
Sm G SG
= < iY 2,
Q & 8
LEGGE’sS PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

372

ual,YD

nL

uayo

ag — == Sa Ee
a U1, —_— —_ U3) =—— In| one
a — = as = om
Eas — a mt a EE
ro U2) — ome Uy —— |] — o—
a Se ad oa oe ———
— — a ans ome
= a ve) —— U3U>) = so uN, =
EEE a = sam a
as = ee See) nee eee
— a U5 —_—— ual,yD el un, =
— Ao ' — ee ——. a
sued ulA sued ulA
YSH-Nd JO LNIWIDNVANYV ATaVS “NIM ONIA JO LNAWJONVAAY YILVT

“Bue, pue UA SB paysingunsip SWYVYOIL IHL

Z Bly It ULV Id

®
373

2 INTRODUCTION

ual ,YD Jo aul] IS1y.

uos }sapja
ways

wal,YD
jO aul] puodas

uos puodas
ue.

JOUE}
ual YD

ual,4y> jo aul] Jaddn
= oD

uos ysasunod’
uay

 

un,» JO Bul] IS1Y
—_— oa
a

Jayysnep ysapja
uns

 

ue,» jO aul] Puodas | UN,> JO auy Jaddn

Jayysnep ysasunod
INL

‘A xipuaddy jo ydes8esed yjua} ay} suijejsny}]

1 8ry

Wil 3iV 1d
LEGcGE’s PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION

374

K'un i,
ii

K'an I} Zz
ii

7%, & ey
3 ue, Li m ing Chen m
Hi | 1 I
& 2, > %
AN 5 > AN = /
Fo] CE
TE . LE
ER TE
S 'S
‘ISH-N4 OL DNIG¥OIDV "NIM ON OL DNIAYOIDV

"paLIajal Ajjeianas are kay) yorum 0) spurod 19430 pue [euipied ayl Yum ‘SWVIDIYL FHL 40 JIAO

Z 8i4 nl ALvid
Iv

LEGGE’S APPENDIXES
HI-VII
APPENDIX 11

The Great Treatise

Section 1.

Chapter 1. 1. Heaven is lofty and honourable; earth is low. (Their
symbols), Chien and K’un, (with their respective meanings), were
determined (in accordance with this).

Things low and high appear displayed in a similar relation. The
"(upper and lower trigrams, and the relative position of individual
fines, as) noble and mean, had their places assigned accordingly.

Movement and rest are the regular qualities (of their respective
subjects). Hence comes the definite distinction (of the several lines)
as the strong and the weak.

(Affairs) are arranged together according to their tendencies,
and things are divided according to their classes. Hence were
produced (the interpretations in the /, concerning) what is good {or
lucky] and evil [or unlucky]. ’

In the heavens there are the (different) figures there completed,
and on the earth there are the (different) bodies there formed.
(Corresponding to them) were the changes and transformations
exhibited (in the 7).

2. After this fashion a strong and a weak line were manipulated
together (till there were the eight trigrams), and those eight tri-
grams were added, each to itself and to all the others, (till the sixty-
four hexagrams were formed).

3. We have the exciting forces of thunder and lightning; the
fertilising influences of wind and rain; and the revolutions of the
Sun and moon, which give rise to cold and warmth,

4. The attributes expressed by Ch’ien constitute the male;
those expressed by K'un constitute the female. )

3. Chien (symbolises Heaven, which) directs the great begin-
lings of things; K'un (symbolises Earth, which) gives to them their
‘ompletion.

6. It is by the ease with which it proceeds that Ch’ien directs
3 it does), and by its unhesitating response that Kun exhibits
Such ability.

7. (He who attains to this) ease (of Heaven) will be easily under-
$tood, and (he who attains to this) freedom from laborious effort
Of the Earth) will be easily followed. He who is easily understood
378 LEGGE’S APPENDIXES FMI-VI]

will have adherents, and he who is easily followed will achieve
success. He who has adherents can continue long, and he whe
achieves success can become great. To be able to continue long
shows the virtue of the wise and able man; to be able to become
great is the heritage he will acquire.

8. With the attainment of such ease and such freedom from
laborious effort, the mastery is got of all principles under the sky.
With the attainment of that mastery, (the sage) makes good his
position in the middle (between heaven and earth).

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Chapter I is an attempt to show the correspondency between the
phenomena of external nature ever changing, and the figures of the / Ching
ever varying. The first four paragraphs, it is said, show, from the phe-
nomena of production and transformation in external nature, the prin-
ciples on which the figures of the / were made. The fifth and sixth para-
graphs show, particularly, how the attributes represented by the figures
Chien and K’un are to be found in (the operations of) heaven and earth.
The last two paragraphs show both those attributes embodied or realised in
man. The realisation takes place, indeed, fully only in the sage or the ideal
man, who thus becomes the pattern for all men.

In paragraph 3 we have five of the six derivative trigrams;— the six
children, according to the nomenclature of the Wen arrangement. “Thun-

 

 

 

 

 

 

der’ stands for chen (=.=), lightning’ for li (===), ‘wind’ for sun
(===), and ‘rain’ for k'an (=-==). ‘The sun, however, is also an emblem
of li, and ‘the moon’ one of ken (===), generally said to represent ‘moun-

 

tains,” while tui ( ) representing ‘collections of water,” has no place in
the enumeration. Chu Hsi says that in paragraph 3 we have the natural
changes seen in the phenomena of the sky, while in 4 we have such changes
as find body and figure on the earth.

Paragraphs 5 and 6 have both been misunderstood from neglect of the
peculiar meaning of the character chib ( ) and from taking it in its
common acceptation of ‘knowing.’ Both commentaries and dictionaries
point out that it is here used in the sense of ‘directing,’ ‘presiding over.’ In
paragraph 7, however, it resumes its brdinary significancy.

 

Chapter II. 9. The sages set forth the diagrams, inspected the
emblems contained in them, and appended their explanations; — in
this way the good fortune and bad (indicated by them) were made
clear.

10. The strong and the weak (lines) displace each other, and
produce the changes and transformations (in the figures).

11. Therefore the good fortune and evil (mentioned in the ex-
planations) are the indications of the right and wrong (in men’s
THE GREAT TREATISE 379

conduct of affairs), and the repentance and regret (similarly men-
tioned) are the indications of their sorrow and anxiety.

12. The changes and transformations (of the lines) are the em-
plems-of the advance and retrogression (of the vital force in nature).
Thus what we call the strong and the weak (lines) become the
emblems of day and night. The movements which take place in
the six places (of the hexagram) show the course of the three ex-
tremes (i.e. of the three Powers in their perfect operation).

13. Therefore what the superior man rests in, in whatever posi-
ton he is placed, is the order shown in the /; and the study which
gives him the greatest pleasure is that of the explanations of the
several lines. :

14. Therefore the superior man, when living quietly, contem-
plates the emblems and studies the explanations of them; when
initiating any movement, he contemplates the changes (that are
made in divining), and studies the prognostications from them.
Thus ‘is help extended to him from Heaven; there will be good
fortune, and advantage in every movement.’

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter 11, paragraphs 9-14, is divided into two parts. The former con-
tains paragraphs 9-12, and tells us how the sages, King Wen and the duke
of Chou, proceeded in making the /, so that the good fortune and bad of
men’s courses should be indicated by it in harmony with right and wrong,
and the processes of nature. Paragraphs 13, 14 form the second part, and
speak of the study of the / by the superior man, desirous of doing what is
right and increasing his knowledge, and the advantages flowing from it.

[ can follow to some extent the first two statements of paragraph 12, so
far as the ideas of the writer are concerned, though asserting any correspon-
dence between the changes of the lines of the diagrams, and the operations
of external nature, as in the succession of day and night, is merely an
amusement of the fancy. I all but fail, however, to grasp the idea in the
last statement. In the trigram, the first line represents earth; the second,
man; and the third, heaven; in the hexagram, the first and second lines are
assigned to earth; the third and fourth, to man; and the fifth and sixth, to
heaven, These are the three Powers, and each Power has ‘a Grand Ex-
treme,” where its nature and operation are seen in their highest ideal. This
Is to some extent conceivable; but when I try to follow our author, and
find an analogy between the course of these extremes and the movements
In the places of the diagrams, I have no clue by which to trace my way. For
the concluding sentence of paragraph 14 see the duke of Chou on the last
line of hexagram 14.

Chapter III. 15. The [Judgments] speak of the emblematic
figures (of the complete diagrams). The Yao [that is, the duke of
380 LEGGE’S APPENDIXES HLyy[,

Chou’s explanations] speak of the changes (taking place in the
several lines). . ;
16. The expressions about good fortune or bad are used wy.
reference to (the figures and lines, as) being right or wrong (y. :
cording to the conditions of time and place); those about reper, -
tance or regret refer to small faults (in the satisfying those cq,
ditions); when it is said ‘there will be no error, or ‘no blame’
there is reference to (the subject) repairing an error by what i:
ood.
§ 17. Therefore the distinction of (the upper and lower trigram;
and of the individual lines) as noble or mean is decided by th
(relative) position (of the lines); the regulations of small and grea
are found in the diagrams, and the discriminations of good and
bad fortune appear in the (subjoined) explanations.

18., Anxiety against (having occasion for) repentance or regret
should be felt at the boundary line (between good and evil). The
stirring up the thought of (securing that there shall be) no blame
arises from (the feeling of) repentance.

19. Thus of the diagrams some are small, and some are grea;
and of the explanations some are startling, and some are unexciting
Every one of those explanations has reference to the tendencies
(indicated by the symbols).

 

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter III, paragraphs 15-19, gives additional information about the
constituent parts of the /, that is, the Text of the classic as we have it from
King Wen and his son. The imperial editors say that it expands the mea”
ing of the fourth paragraph, the third of chapter 2. It does do so, but this
account hardly covers all its contents. .

To understand the names ‘small and great,’ as used of the diagrams I?
paragraphs 17 and 19, it should be noted that hexagrams to which th
divided or yin line gives their character are termed ‘small,’ and those whert
the undivided or yang line rules are called ‘great.’ Kou (44,==), Tun

(33, =), and Pi (12,="=) are instances of the former class; Fu oA

=), Lin (19. =, and Tai (11, ) of the other.
It is observed by Tsai Ch'ing (early in the Ming dynasty) that the term’
‘diagrams’ and ‘explanations’ must be understood not only of the whol

figures but also as embracing the several lines.

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter IV. 20. The / was made on a principle of accordan®
with heaven and earth, and shows us therefore, without rent of
confusion, the course (of things) in heaven and earth. ’

21. (The sage), in accordance with (the J), looking up, conte”
ue GREAT TREATISE 381

ites the brilliant phenomena of the heavens, and, looking down,

;amines the definite arrangements of the earth; —thus he knows
fie causes of darkness (or, what is obscure) and light (or, what is
bright): He traces things to their beginning, and follows them to
heir end; — thus he knows what can be said about death and life.
He perceives how the union of) essence and breath form things,
nd the (disappearance or) wandering away of the soul produces
te change (of their constitution): —thus he knows the character-
stics of the anima and animus.
+ 22. There is a similarity between him and heaven and earth,
lind hence there is no contrariety in him to them. His knowledge
mmbraces all things, and his course is (intended to be) helpful to
al under the sky; —and hence he falls into no error. He acts ac-
wrding to the exigency of circumstances without being carried
away by their current; he rejoices in Heaven and knows its ordi-
nations; —and hence he has no anxieties. He rests in his own
{present) position, and cherishes (the spirit of) generous benev-
tlence; —and hence he can love (without reserve).

23. (Through the J), he comprehends as in a mould or enclosure
the transformations of heaven and earth without any error; by an
tver-varying adaptation he completes (the nature of) all things
without exception; he penetrates to a knowledge of the course of
day and night (and all other connected phenomena); —it is thus
that his operation is spirit-like, unconditioned by place, while the
thanges which he produces are not restricted to any form.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter IV, paragraphs 20-23, is intended still more to exalt the /, and
ems to say that the sage by means of it can make an exhaustive study of
4 principles and of human nature, till he attains to the knowledge of the
Ordinances of Heaven. Such is the account of the chapter given by Chu
1si; but the second character in paragraph 21 must be understood in the
Ignification which it has in all the sixty-four sentences which explain the
fmblernatic structure of the hexagrams, as = ‘in accordance with’ and not
Y means of.” The imperial editors append to their statement of Chu'’s ac-
Bunt, that it must be borne in mind that the sages had not to wait till the /
¥as made to conduct their exhaustive study. They had done that before,
od the / may be considered as a talk on the results, drawn out in its own
Peculiar style. It holds the mirror up to nature; but its authors knew nature
Clore they made it.
+. paragraph 21, ‘the brilliant phenomena of the heavens’ are the various
Ning bodies of the sky, with their rising and setting; ‘the definite ar-
4. gements of the earth’ are the different situations of its parts according to

¢ points of the compass, and its surface as diversified by mountain and
Wey; and by the study of these the causes of day and night are known as
382 LEGGE’s ApPENDIXES Ill.yy

being the expansion and contraction of the elementary ether. The sap,
thing produces the facts of birth or life and death. |

Ching, which I have translated ‘essence,’ denotes the more subtle ang
pure part of matter, and belongs to the grosser form of the elementyy,
ether; ch’i, or ‘spirit, is the breath, still material, but purer than the ching
and belongs to the finer, and more active form of the ether. Here chi is ‘th
breath of life.” In the hwun or ‘soul (animus), the ch’i predominates, ang
the ching in the pho or animal soul. At death the hwun wanders away,
ascending, and the pho descends and is changed into a ghostly shade. §,
did the ancient Chinese grope their way from material things to the con.
cept and representation of what was immaterial.

For my ‘characteristics of the anima and animus, Dr. Medhurst rendered
‘the circumstances and conditions of the Kuei Shans’ (Theology of the
Chinese, pp. 10-12); but he observes that ‘the Kuei Shans in the passage
are evidently the expanding and contracting principles of human life.” The
kuei shans are brought about by the dissolution of the human frame, and
consist'of the expanding and ascending shan, which rambles about in space,
and of the contracted and shrivelled kuei, which reverts to earth and nonen-
tity. It is difficult to express one’s self clearly on a subject treated so briefly
and enigmatically in the text.

We must understand that the subject of the predicates in this and the
next two paragraphs is ‘the sage,” who has endeavoured to give a transcript
of his views and doings in the /. The character, which I have translated by
‘spirit-like” in paragraph 23, is different from ch’ in paragraph 21. Itis
shan, a character of the phonetic class, while its primary material significa: |
tion has not been satisfactorily ascertained. “The Chinese, says P. Regis
(vol. ii. p. 445), ‘use it in naming the soul, true angels, and the genii of idola-
ters; and the Christian Chinese use it when they speak of God, of the
Holy Spirit, of angels, and of the soul of man. For what else could they do?’

 

Chapter V. 24. The successive movement of the inactive and
active operations constitutes what is called the course (of things).

25. That which ensues as the result (of their movement) is good:
ness; that which shows it in its completeness is the natures (of me?
and things).

26. The benevolent see it and call it benevolence. The wise set
it and call it wisdom. The common people, acting daily according
to it, yet have no knowledge of it. Thus it is that the course (0
things), as seen by the superior man, is seen by few. ;

27. It is manifested in the benevolence (of its operations), an
(then again) it conceals and stores up its resources. It gives theif
stimulus to all things, without having the same anxieties that 5
sess the sage. Complete is its abundant virtue and the greatness Bh
its stores! ¢

28. Its rich possessions is what is intended by ‘the greatness h
THE GREAT TREATISE 383

its stores; the daily renovation which it produces is what is meant
py ‘the abundance of its virtue.’

29. Production and reproduction is what is called (the process of)
change.

30. The formation of the semblances (shadowy forms of things)
is what we attribute to Ch’ien; the giving to them their specific
forms is what we attribute to K’un.

31. The exhaustive use of the numbers (that turn up in manipu-
lating the stalks), and (thereby) knowing (the character of) coming
events, is what we call prognosticating; the comprehension of the
changes (indicated leads us to) what we call the business (to be
done).

32. That which is unfathomable in (the movement of) the in-
active and active operations is (the presence of a) spiritual (power).

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Chapter V, paragraphs 24-32, still shows us the / fashioned so as to
give a picture of the phenomena of the external universe; but the writer
dwells more on the latter, and the different paragraphs give an interesting
view of his ideas on the subject. He supposes a constant change from rest
to movement and from movement to rest, through which all things are
formed, now still, now in motion, now expanding, now contracting. It is
customary to speak of two forms of an original ether as the two elementary
principles, but they are really one and the same ether, in a twofold con-
dition, with a twofold action. By their successive movement the phenomena
of existence are produced, — what I have called ‘the course (of things) in
paragraph 24. It is attempted, however, by many native scholars and by
some sinologists, to give to tao, the last character in that paragraph, the
meaning of ‘reason,’ that which intelligently guides and directs the move-
ments of the two elements. But this view is not in harmony with the scope
of the chapter, nor can the characters be fairly construed so as to justify
such an interpretation.

The imperial editors say that the germ of the Mencian doctrine about

the goodness of human nature is in paragraph 25; but it says more widely,
that ‘every creature is good,’ according to its ideal as from the plastic yin
and yang. But few, the next paragraph tells us, can understand the measure
of this goodness. .
‘The benevolent operations’ in the course of things in paragraph 27 are
illustrated from the phenomena of growth and beauty in spring and sum-
Mer; and the cessation of these in autumn and winter may be called ‘a con-
tealing and storing them up.’

Paragraph 29 seems to state the origin of the name 7 as applied to the
book, the / Ching.

In paragraph 30 the names Ch’ien and K'un take the place of yin and
Yang, as used in paragraphs 24 and 32. In Ch'ien, the symbol of heaven,
tvery one of its three lines is undivided; it is the concentration of the yang
faculty; so K’un, the symbol of the earth, is the concentration of the yin.
384 Lecce’s AppEnpixes III-Vj;

The critics themselves call attention to the equivalence of the symbol,
names here given to yin and yang. The connexion of the two is necessap,
to the production of any one substantial thing. The yang originates ,
shadowy outline which the yin fills up with a definite substance. So a.
tually in nature Heaven (Ch’ien) and Earth (K’un) operate together in th
production of all material things and beings.

The ‘numbers,’ mentioned in paragraph 31, are not all or any number
generally, but 7, 8, 9, 6, those assigned to the four ‘emblematic figures,’ tha
grow out of the undivided and divided lines, and by means of which the
hexagrams are made up in divination. The ‘future or coming events’ which
are prognosticated are not particular events, which the diviner has not
already forecast, but the character of events or courses of actions already
contemplated, as good or evil, lucky or unlucky, in their issue.

The best commentary on paragraph 32 is supplied by paragraphs 8-10
of (“The Orderly Sequence of the Hexagrams,” further along in Part IV]
The ‘Spirit’ is that of ‘God,’ and this settles the meaning of tao in paragraph
24, as being the course, of nature, in which, according to the author, ‘God
worketh all in all’

Chapter VI. 33. Yes, wide is the / and great! If we speak of it
in its farthest reaching, no limit can be set to it; if we speak of it
with reference to what is near at hand, (its lessons are) still and cor-
rect; if we speak of it in connexion with all between heaven and
earth, it embraces all.

34. There is Ch’ien. In its (individual) stillness it is self-absorbed;
when exerting its motive power it goes straight forward; and thus
it is that its productive action is on a grand scale. There is K’un.
In its (individual) stillness, it is self-collected and capacious; when
exerting its motive power, it developes its resources, and thus its
productive action is on a wide scale.

35. In its breadth and greatness, (the /) corresponds to heaven
and earth; in its ever-recurring changes, it corresponds to the fouf
seasons; in its mention of the bright or active, and the dark or in”
active operation, it corresponds to the sun and moon; and the ex
cellence seen in the ease and ready response (of its various opera-
tions) corresponds to the perfect operations (presented to us in the
phenomena of nature).

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VI, paragraphs 33-35, goes on further to celebrate the / 4
holding up the mirror to nature in all its operations and in its widest extent
The grandiloquent language, however, amounts only to this, that, when w®
have made ourselves acquainted with the phenomena of nature, we cath
with a heated fancy, see some analogy to them in the changes of the dia-
grams and lines of the J book.
THE GREAT TREATISE 385

Ch’ien and K’un must be taken as the same names are understood in
paragraph 30 above.

“The 1,’ with which paragraph 33 begins, must be understood also at the
commencement of paragraph 35. The character which I have translated
by ‘corresponds’ throughout this last chapter, should not, it is observed,
have stress laid upon it. Chu Hsi says that it is simply equal to the ‘there
is a similarity’ of paragraph 22. “The bright or active element’ and ‘the
dark or inactive’ are in the original, ‘the yang and the yin.’ The correspon-
dence predicted between them and the sun and moon, the brightness and
warmth of the one, and the paleness and coldness of the other, shows us
how those names arose, and that it is foreign to the original concept of
them to call them ‘the male and female principles.’ — with the last clause
compare paragraphs 6-8.

Chapter VIL. 36. The Master said: —‘Is not the / a perfect
book?’ It was by the / that the sages exalted their virtue, and en-
larged their sphere of occupation. Their wisdom was high, and
their rules of conduct were solid. That loftiness was after the pat-
tern of heaven; that solidity, after the pattern of earth.

37. Heaven and earth having their positions as assigned to them,
the changes (of nature) take place between them. The nature (of
man) having been completed, and being continually preserved, it
is the gate of all good courses and righteousness.

LEGGE'S NOTES

Chapter VII, paragraphs 36, 37, is understood to set forth how the
sages embodied the teachings of the / in their character and conduct. But
when it is said that ‘it was by the / that they exalted their virtue and en-
larged their sphere of occupation,’ the meaning can only be that what they
did in these directions was in harmony with the principles which they
endeavoured to set forth in the symbols of the /.

“Their rules of conduct were solid,” in paragraph 36, is, literally, ‘their
rules were low.” To the height of heaven reached by the wisdom of the
sages, the author opposes the low-lying earth, between which and their
substantial practices and virtues he discovered some analogy.

It will be seen that the chapter commences with “The Master said’
Chu Hsi observes that ‘as the Ten Appendixes were all made by the Mas-
ter, these words are out of place, and that he conjectures that wherever
they occur here and elsewhere, they were added after the sage’s time.” Their
occurrence very seriously affects the question of the authorship of the
Appendixes, which I have discussed in the Introduction.

Chapter VIII. 38. The sage was-able to survey all the complex
phenomena under the sky. He then considered in his mind how
they could be figured, and (by means of the diagrams) represented
386 LEGGE’s APPENDIXES I-vy

their material forms and their character. Hence these (diagrams)
are denominated Semblances (or emblematic figures, the Hsiang),

39. A (later) sage was able to survey the motive influences work.
ing all under the sky. He contemplated them in their common
action and special nature, in order to bring out the standard anq
proper tendency of each. He then appended his explanation (to
each line of the diagrams), to determine the good or evil indicated
by it. Hence those (lines with their explanations) are denominated
Imitations (the Yao).

40. (The diagrams) speak of the most complex phenomena
under the sky, and yet there is nothing in them that need awaken
dislike; the explanations of the lines speak of the subtlest move-
ments under the sky, and yet there is nothing in them to produce
confusion.

41. (A learner) will consider what is said (under the diagrams),
and then speak; he will deliberate on what is said (in the expla-
nations of the lines), and then move. By such consideration and
deliberations he will be able to make all the changes which he
undertakes successful.

42. ‘Here hid, retired, cries out the crane;
Her young’s responsive cry sounds there.
Of spirits good I drain this cup;
With thee a cup I'll freely share.’

The Master said: —“The superior man occupies his apartment
and sends forth his words. If they be good, they will be responded
to at a distance of more than a thousand li;—how much more will
they be so in the nearer circle! He occupies his apartment and
sends forth his words. If they be evil, they will awaken opposition
at a distance of more than a thousand li;—how much more will
they do so in the nearer circle! Words issue from one’s person,
and proceed to affect the people. Actions proceed from what 18
near, and their effects are seen at a distance. Words and actions
are the hinge and spring of the superior man. The movement 0!
that hinge and spring determines glory or disgrace. His words and
actions move heaven and earth;— may he be careless in regard to
them?’

43. ‘(The representative of) the union of men first cries out and
weeps, and afterwards laughs.’ The Master said, on this: —

‘The ways of good men (different seem).
This in a public office toils;

That in his home the time beguiles.
One man his lips with silence seals,
Tae GREAT TREATISE 387

Another all his mind reveals.

But when two men are one in heart,
Not iron bolts keep them apart;
The words they in their union use,
Fragrance like orchid plants diffuse.’

44. “The first line, undivided, shows its subject placing mats of
the white grass beneath what he sets on the ground.” The Master
said: — “To place the things on the ground might be considered
sufficient; but when he places beneath them mats of the white
grass, what occasion for blame can there be? Such a course shows
the height of carefulness. The white grass is a trivial thing, but
through the use made of it, it may become important. He who goes
forward using such careful art will not fall into any error.’

45. ‘A superior man toiling laboriously and yet humble! He
will bring things to an end, and with good fortune.” The Master
said on this: — ‘He toils with success, but does not boast of it; he
achieves merit, but takes no virtue to himself from it; — this is the
height of generous goodness, and speaks of the man who with
(great) merit yet places himself below others. He wishes his virtue
to be more and more complete, and in his intercourse with others
to be more and more respectful; —he who is so humble, carrying
his respectfulness to the utmost, will be able to preserve himself
in his position.’

46. ‘The dragon (is seen) beyond his proper haunts; there will
be occasion for repentance.’ The Master said on this: — ‘He is
noble, but is not in his correct place; he is on high, but there are no
people to acknowledge him; there is a man of virtue and ability
below, but he will not assist him. Hence whatever movement he
may make will give occasion for repentance.’ :

47. ‘He does not quit the courtyard before his door — there will
be no occasion for blame.” The Master said on this: — ‘When dis-
order arises, it will be found that (ill-advised) speech was the step-
ping-stone to it. If a ruler do not keep secret (his deliberations with
his minister), he will lose that minister. If a minister do not keep
secret (his deliberations with his ruler), he will lose his life. If (im-
portant) matters in the germ be not kept secret, that will be in-
Jurious to their accomplishment. Therefore the superior man is
careful to maintain secrecy, and does not allow himself to speak.’

48. The Master said: — “The makers of the / may be said to have
known (the philosophy of) robbery. The / says, “He is a burden-
bearer, and yet rides in a carriage, thereby exciting robbers to
attack him.” Burden-bearing is the business of a small man. A
carriage is the vehicle of a gentleman. When a small man rides in
388 LeEcGE’s AprreNDIXEs T1I-V]]

the vehicle of a gentleman, robbers will think of taking it from him,
(When one is) insolent to those above him, and oppressive to those
below, robbers will wish to attack him. Careless laying up of
things excites to robbery, (as a woman’s) adorning of herself ex-
cites to lust. What the / says about the burden-bearer’s riding in a
carriage, and exciting robbers tdWttack him, (shows how) robbery
is called out.’

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VIII, paragraphs 38-48. In the first two paragraphs here we
have an account of the formation of the diagrams, and of the explanation
of the whole hexagrams and of the individual lines. “The sage’ in paragraph
38 is intended presumably of Fu-hsi; but we cannot say, from it, whether
the writer thought of him as having formed only the eight trigrams, or all
the sixty-four hexagrams. In the diagrams, however, we have semblances,
or representations, of the phenomena of nature, even the most complex,
and hard to be disentangled. Paragraph 39 goes on to speak of the explana-
tion more especially of the individual lines, by the duke of Chou, as sym-
bolical of good luck or evil, as they turned up in the processes of divination.

Paragraph 40 declares the usableness (so to speak) of the diagrams and
the explanations of them; and 41 shows us how a learner or consulter of
the / would actually proceed in using it.

In paragraphs 42-48 we have the words of Confucius on seven lines in
so many hexagrams, or rather his amplification of the words of the duke of
Chou’s explanations of their symbolism. The lines are 2 of hexagram 61; 5 of
13; 1 of 28; 3 of 15; 6 of 1; 1 of 60; and 3 of 40. What Confucius says is not
without interest, but does not make the principles on which the / was made
any clearer to us. It shows how his object was to turn the symbolism that
he found to a moral or ethical account; and no doubt he could have varied
the symbolism, if he had been inclined to do so.

I have spoken in the preceding chapter of the difficulty which the phrase
“The Master said’ presents to our accepting the Appendix as from the hand
of Confucius himself. But his words in paragraph 43 are in rhyme. He did
not speak so. If he rhymed his explanation of the symbolism of the line
that is the ground-work of that paragraph, why did he not rhyme his ex-
planations of the other lines? To answer these questions categorically is
beyond our power. The facts that suggest them increase the difficulty in
ascribing this and the other additions to the / to the later sage.

Chapter IX. 49. To heaven belongs (the number) 1; to earth, 2;
to heaven, 3; to earth, 4; to heaven, 5; to earth, 6; to heaven, 7; t0
earth, 8; to heaven, 9; to earth, 10.

50. The numbers belonging to heaven are five, and those belong”
ing to earth are (also) five. The numbers of these two series cor”
respond to each other (in their fixed positions), and each one h2$
another that may be considered its mate. The heavenly numbers
THE GREAT TREATISE ‘ 389

amount to 25, and the earthly to 30. The numbers of heaven and
earth together amount to 55. It is by these that the changes and
transformations are effected, and the spirit-like agencies kept in
movement.

51. The numbers of the Great Expansion, (multiplied together),
make 50, of which (only) 49 are used (in divination). (The stalks
representing these) are divided into two heaps to represent the two
(emblematic lines, or heaven and earth). One is then taken (from
the heap on the right), and placed (between the little finger of the
left hand and the next), that there may thus be symbolised the three
(powers of heaven, earth, and man). (The heaps on both sides) are
manipulated by fours to represent the four seasons; and then the
remainders are returned, and placed (between) the two middle
fingers of the left hand, to represent the intercalary month. In five
years there are two intercalations, and therefore there are two
operations; and afterwards the whole process is repeated.

52. The numbers (required) for Ch’ien (or the undivided line)
amount to 216; those for K’un (or the divided line), to 144. To-
gether they are 360, corresponding to the days of the year.

53. The number produced by the lines in the two parts (of the /)
amount to 11,520, corresponding to the number of all things.

54. Therefore by means of the four operations is the / com-
pleted. It takes 18 changes to form a hexagram.

35. (The formation of) the eight trigrams constitutes the small
completion (of the /).

56. If we led on the diagrams and expanded them, if we pro-
longed each by the addition of the proper lines, then all events pos-
sible under the sky might have their representation.

57. (The diagrams) make manifest (by their appended explana-

tons), the ways (of good and ill fortune), and show virtuous actions

'n their spiritual relations. In this way, by consulting them, we may

Teceive an answer (to our doubts), and we may also by means of

om assist the spiritual (power in its agency in nature and provi-
ence).

38. The Master said: —‘He who knows the method of change
and transformation may be said to know what is done by that
Spiritual (power).’

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter IX, paragraphs 49-58, is of a different character from any of the
Preceding, and treats, unsatisfactorily, of the use of numbers in connexion
With the figure of the / and the practice of divination.

In the T’ang edition of the /, published in the seventh century, para-
Staph 49 is the first of the eleventh chapter according to the arrangement
390 LEGGE’S APPENDIXES HI-vy

now followed. Ch'eng-tzu restored it to its present place, which it go
cupied, as has been proved, during the Han dynasty, and to which j
properly belongs. It and the next paragraph should be taken together, apg
are distinct from what follows, though the T'ang edition is further cop.
fused in placing 51 before 5p

In 49 and 50 ‘heaven’ and ‘earth’ are used as we have seen Ch'ien ang
K'un are in paragraphs 30 and 34. Odd numbers belong to the strong of
undivided line, which is symbolical of the active operation in nature, and
the even numbers to the weak or divided line, symbolical of its inaction,
The phraseology of the paragraphs, however, can only be understood by,
reference to ‘the river map,” which has been given in the Introduction
pages 336, 337.

The map, as it appeared on the back of ‘the dragon-horse,’ consisted of
so many circles, and so many dark circular markings, the former, it was
assumed, being of the yang character, and the latter of the yin. Fu-hsi for
the circle substituted the strong or undivided line ( ), and for the
dark markings the weak or divided (— —). It will be seen that the yang
symbols are the 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 circles, and the yin are the 2,4, 6, 8 and 10
circular markings, which is the pictorial delineation of paragraph 49. The
only thing to be said upon it is that the arrangement of the five circles and
ten circular markings is peculiar, and evidently devised ‘for a purpose.’ So
far, however, as we know, no figure of the map was attempted till after the
beginning of our twelfth century.

The same figure is supposed to illustrate what is said in paragraph 50:
“The numbers of the two series correspond to each other in their fixed
positions.” 1 and 2, and 3 and 4 certainly front each other, and perhaps 5
and 6; but 7 and 8, and 9 and 10 do not do so in the same way. It is said
also that ‘each has another that may be considered its mate.” So it is with
1 and 6, 2 and 7, 3 and 8, 4 and 9, but hardly with 5 and 10. Further.
1+3+4+5+74+9=25;2+4+ 8+ 10=30; and 25+ 30= 55; all of which
points are stated. :

The last statement in the paragraph, however, derives no illustration, s0
far as I can see, from the figure. How can the numbers effect the things that
are predicated of them? There is a jargon indeed about the formation 0
the five elements, but in order to make it appear not reasonable, but cap?
ble of being related, writers call in ‘the Lo writing’ to the aid of ‘the Ho
map;’ and ‘the five elements’ is a division of the constituents of mater
things, which is foreign to the /.

Paragraph 51 is intended to describe the process of divination in manip¥
lating the stalks, but the description is confused by introducing into it the
four seasons and the subject of intercalation, so as to be very difficult t©
understand.

In the middle of the Ho map are the five circles symbolical of heave?
and the ten dark terrestrial markings (five above and five below the others
These multiplied together give fifty, which form ‘the great expansion.’ Buf
50 divining stalks or slips, when divided, give either two odd numbers of
two even; and therefore one was put on one side. The remaining 49, how”
ever divided, were sure to give two parcels of stalks, one containing at
even number of stalks, and the other an odd, and so might be said fan”

 
THE GREAT TREATISE 391

fully to represent the undivided or strong, and the divided or weak line. It
is needless to go minutely into the other steps of the process. Then comes
in the counting the stalks by four, because there are four seasons in the
year, and those that remain represent the intercalary days. But how could
such a process be of any value to determine the days necessary to be inter-
calated in any particular year? The paragraph shows, however, that, when
it was, written, the rule was to intercalate two months in five years. But
it does not say how many days would remain to be carried on to the sixth
year after the second intercalation.

Paragraph 52. The actual number of the undivided and divided lines
in the hexagrams is the same, 192 of each. But the representative number
of an undivided line is 9, and of a divided line 6. Now 9 X 4 (the number
of the emblematic figures) X 6 (the lines of each hexagram) = 216; and 6 X
4 X 6 = 144. The sum of these products is 360, which was assumed, for the
purpose of working the intercalation, as the standard length of the year.
But this was derived from observation, and other considerations; —it did
not come out of the /. -

Paragraphs 53-56. The number in 53 arises thus: — 192 (the number of
each series of lines in the sixty-four hexagrams) X 36 (obtained as above)=
6912, and 192 X 24 = 4608, the sum of which = 11,520. This is said to be
‘the number of all things,’ the meaning of which I do not know. The ‘four
operations’ are those described in paragraph 31. They were thrice re-
peated in divination to determine each new line, and of course it took
eighteen of them to form a hexagram. The diagrams might be extended
ad infinitum, both in the number of lines and of figures, by the natural
process of their formation as shown in the Introduction, page 336, without
the aid of the divining stalks; and no sufficient reason can be given why
the makers of the figures stopped at sixty-four.

It is difficult to believe the first statement in paragraph 57 and to under-
stand the second. What is it ‘to Shen or spiritualise virtuous actions?’
The concluding statement approximates to impiety.

We may grant what is affirmed in paragraph 58, but does the / really
give us any knowledge of the processes of change and transformation in
nature? What wiser are we after all the affirmations about numbers?
‘Change’ = changings, understood actively: — the work of Heaven; ‘trans-
formations’ = evolution: — the finish given by earth to the changing caused
by Heaven.

Chapter X. 59. In the / there are four things characteristic of
the way of the sages. We should set the highest value on its ex-
Planations to guide us in speaking; on its changes for (the initia-
ion of) our movements; on its emblematic figures for (definite
Action as in) the construction of implements; and on its prognosti-
Cations for our practice of divination.

60. Therefore, when a superior man is about to take action of a
More private or of a public character, he asks (the J), making his
Inquiry in words. It receives his order, and the answer comes as
392 Lecce’s Appenpixes III-Vqy

the echo’s response. Be the subject remote or near, mysterious 0;
deep, he forthwith knows of what kind will be the coming resul,
(If the J) w€re not the most exquisite thing under heaven, would jt
be concerned in such an operation as this?

61. (The stalks) are manipulated by threes and fives to deter.
mine (one) change; they are laid on opposite sides, and placed one
up, one down, to make sure of their numbers; and the (three neces.
sary) changes are gone through with in this way, till they form the
figures pertaining to heaven or to earth. Their numbers are ex-
actly determined, and the emblems of (all things) under the sky
are fixed. (If the /) were not the thing most capable of change of
all things under heaven, how could it effect such a result as this?

62. In (all these operations forming) the J, there is no thought
and no action. It is still and without movement; but, when acted
on, it penetrates forthwith to all phenomena and events under the
sky. If it were not the most spirit-like thing under the sky, how
could it be found doing this?

63. The (operations forming the) / are the method by which the
sages searched out exhaustively what was deep, and investigated
the minutest springs (of things).

64. ‘Those operations searched out what was deep:’ — therefore
they could penetrate to the views of all under the sky. ‘They made
apparent the minutest springs of (things): —therefore they could
bring to a completion all undertakings under the sky. “Their action
was spirit-like:’—therefore they could make speed without hurry,
and reached their destination without travelling.

65. This is the import of what the Master said, that ‘In the /
there are four things indicating the way of the sages.’

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter X, paragraphs 59-65, enlarges on the service rendered to men
by the /, owing to the way in which it was made by the sages to express
their views and carry into effect their wishes.

Paragraph 59 mentions the four things in which its usefulness appear’-
‘The emblematic figures’ are the four bsiang, which are produced by the
manipulation of the undivided and divided lines, and whose representativ¢
numbers are 9, 8, 7, 6. ‘Divination’ appears in the paragraph as pu-sbibs
which means ‘divination by the tortoise-shell and by the stalks.’ But the
tortoise-shell had nothing to do with the use of the /. Before the compos”
tion of these Appendixes the two terms must have been combined to ¢*
press the practice of divination, without reference to its mode.

Paragraph 60 speaks of the explanations and prognostications of the L
The ‘exquisiteness’ ascribed to it would be due to the sages who had de
vised it, and appended their explanations to it; but the whole thing has no
existence save in cloud-land.
THE GREAT TREATISE 393

Paragraph 61 speaks of the operations with the stalks till the various
changes in the results issued in the determination of the emblematic
figures, and then in the fixing of the individual lines and entire hexagrams.
Even Chu Hsi admits that the references to the different processes are now
hardly intelligible.

Paragraph 62. How could the writer speak of the / without thought
or -action as being most ‘spirit-like?’ If it did what he asserts, those who
contrived it might be so described? They would have been beings whose
operation was indeed like that of spirits, inscrutable, ‘unfathomable’
(paragraph 32), even like that of the Spirit of God (VI, 10).

Paragraphs 63 and 64 ought not to be taken as saying that the sages did
the things described for themselves by the /. They knew them of them-
selves, and made the / that others might come by it to do the same. So the
writer imagined. No words could indicate more clearly than those of para-
graph 65 that the paragraphs between it and 59 did not come from Con-
fucius, but from the compiler of the Great Appendix, whoever he was.

Chapter XI. 66. The Master said: — ‘What is it that the / does?
The I opens up (the knowledge of the issues of) things, accom-
plishes the undertakings (of men), and embraces under it (the way
of) all things under the sky. This and nothing more is what the /
does. Thereby the sages, through (divination by) it, would give
their proper course to the aims of all under the sky, would give
stability to their undertakings, and determine their doubts.’

67. Therefore the virtue of the stalks is versatile and spirit-like;
that of the diagrams is exact and wise; and the meaning given by
the six lines is changeful to give (the proper information to men).
The sages having, by their possession of these (three virtues),
cleansed their minds, retired and laid them up in the secrecy (of
their own consciousness). But their sympathies were with the
people in regard both to their good fortune and evil. By their
spirit-like ability they knew (the character of) coming events, and
their wisdom had stored up (all experiences of) the past. Who
could be able to accomplish all this? (Only our) ancient sages,
quick in apprehension and clear in discernment, of far-reaching
intelligence, and all-embracing knowledge, and with a majesty,
going spirit-like to its objects; —it was only they who could do so.

68. Therefore (those sages), fully understanding the way of
Heaven, and having clearly ascertained the experience of the peo-
ple, instituted (the employment of) these spirit-like things, as a
provision for the use of the people. The sages went about the em-
ployment of them (moreover) by purifying their hearts and with
reverent caution, thereby giving (more) spirituality and intelligence
to their virtue.

69. Thus, a door shut may be pronounced (analogous to) K’'un
394 LecGe’s AppenpixEs III-VI|

(or the inactive condition), and the opening of the door (analogous
to) Ch’ien (gr the active condition). The opening succeeding the
being shut“may be pronounced (analogous to what we call) a
change; and the passing from one of these states to the other may
be called the constant course (of things).

The (first) appearance of anything (as a bud) is what we call a
semblance; when it has received its complete form, we call] it a
definite thing.

(The divining-plant having been produced, the sages) set it apart
and laid down the method of its employment,— what we call the
laws (of divination). The advantage arising from it in external and
internal matters, so that the people all use it, stamps it with a
character which we call spirit-like.

70. Therefore in (the system of) the / there is the Grand Ter-
minus, which produced the two elementary Forms. Those two
Forms produced the Four emblematic Symbols, which again pro-
duced the eight Trigrams.

71. The eight trigrams served to determine the good and evil
(issues of events), and from this determination was produced the
(successful prosecution of the) great business (of life).

72. Therefore of all things that furnish models and visible fig-
ures there are none greater than heaven and earth; of things that
change and extend an influence (on others) there are none greater
than the four seasons; of things suspended (in the sky) with their
figures displayed clear and bright, there are none greater than the
sun and moon; of the honoured and exalted there are none greater
than he who is the rich and noble (one); in preparing things for
practical use, and inventing and making instruments for the benefit
of all under the sky, there are none greater than the sages; to ex-
plore what is complex, search out what is hidden, to hook up what
lies deep, and reach to what is distant, thereby determining (the
issues) for good or ill of all events under the sky, and making all
men under heaven full of strenuous endeavours, there are no
(agencies) greater than those of the stalks and the tortoise-shell.

73. Therefore Heaven produced the spirit-like things, and the
sages took advantage of them. (The operations of) heaven and
earth are marked by (so many) changes and transformations, and
the sages imitated them (by means of the J). Heaven hangs out its
(brilliant) figures from which are seen good fortune and bad, and
the sages made their emblematic interpretations accordingly. The
Ho gave forth the map, and the Lo the writing, of (both of) which
the sages took advantage.

74. In the (scheme of the) / there are the four symbolic figures
by which they inform men (in divining of the lines making up the
THE GREAT TREATISE 395

diagrams); the explanations appended to them convey the signifi-
cance (of the diagrams and lines); and the determination (of the
divination) as fortunate or the reverse, to settle the doubts (of
men).

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter XI, paragraphs 66-74, treats of divination, and the scheme of it
supplied in the /. That scheme must be referred first to Heaven, which
produced the spirit-like things, —the divining-plant and the tortoise; and
next to the sages, who knew the mind of Heaven, and made the plant and
shell subservient to the purpose for which they were intended.

Paragraph 66 answers the question of what the / does; and if there were
truth or reason in it, the book and its use would be most important. I have
closed the quotation of ‘the Master's’ words at the end of the paragraph;
but really we do not know if they extend so far, or farther.

Paragraphs 67 and 68 glorify the sages and their work. The virtues of the
divining-plant all belonged to them, and it was thus that they were able
to organise the scheme of divination. The production of ‘the spirit-like
things’ is, in paragraph 73, ascribed to ‘Heaven;’ the characters about them
in these paragraphs mean no more than is expressed in the translation.

Paragraph 69 shows how the antinomy of the yin and yang pervades all
nature, and how the sages turned it, as existing preeminently in the divining-
plant, to account.

Paragraph 70. Evidently the author had in view here the genesis of the
diagrams of the /, the number of figures increasing in a geometrical pro-
gression with the ratio of 2, while the lines of the figures form an arith-
metical progression with the common difference of 1. This is quite plain
after ‘the two elementary forms ( and — —)’ have been made.
They give birth to ‘the four emblematic symbols,” each of two lines
( , — ==, =——=. =— =, known, in this order, as the Grand or old
Yang, the young Yin, the young Yang, and the Grand or old Yin). By the
addition to each of these symbols first of the yang line, and then of the
yin, there arise the eight trigrams, each of three lines; and the process of
formation might be continued indefinitely.

But how was the first step taken in the formation of the two elementary
lines? Here, it is said, they were produced by the T"ai Chi, or the Grand
Terminus. This is represented in Chu Hsi’s ‘Youth’s Introduction to the
Study of the /,’ by a circle; but he tells us that that representation of it was
first made by Chou-tze (a.p. 1017-1073, called also Chou Tun-i, Chou
Mao-shu, and, most of all, Chou Lien- chi) and that his readers must be
careful not to suppose that Fu-hsi had such a figure in his mind’s eye. I fail
myself to understand how there can be generated from a circle the un-
divided and the broken line. Given those two lines, and the formation of
the sixty-four hexagrams proceeds regularly according to the method above
described. We must start from them, whether we can account or not for
the rise of the idea of them in the mind of Fu-hsi.

Leaving the subject of the figure of the T’ai Chi, the name gives us
hardly any clue to its meaning. Chi is used for the extreme term of any-

 

 

 

 
396 Lecee’s AprenpixEs I1I-VI]

thing, as the ridge-pole of a house, or the pinnacle of a pagoda. The com-
ment on the first sentence in the paragraph by Wang Pi (a.p. 226-249) is: —
‘Existence/#iust begin in nonexistence, and therefore the Grand Terminus
produced the two elementary Forms. Tai Chi is the denomination of what
has no denomination. As it cannot be named, the text takes the extreme
point of anything that exists as an analogous term for the T’ai Chi.’ Ex-
panding Wang's comment, K’ung Ying-ta says: ~ “Tai Chi means the orig-
inal subtle matter, that formed the one chaotic mass before heaven and
earth were divided; and then he refers to certain passages in Lao-tzu’s
Tao Teh King, and identifies the T ai Chi with his Tao. This would seem
to give to T"ai Chi a material meaning. The later philosophers of the Sung
school, however, insist on its being immaterial, now calling it li, the princi-
ple of order in nature, now tao, the defined course of things, now Ti, the
Supreme Power or God, now shen, the spiritual working of God. Accord-
ing to Ch’eng-tzu, all these names are to be referred to that of ‘Heaven,
of which they express so many different concepts.

Paragraph 71 speaks of divination in practice, and paragraph 72 cele-
brates the service done by that through the plant and shell, as equal to,
and indeed the complement of, all the other services rendered by heaven
and earth, the seasons, the sun and moon, the sages, and the greatest
potentates. Surely, it is all very extravagant.

The last two paragraphs resume the theme of the making of the / by the
sages, and their teaching the practice of divination. Of the Ho map and
the Lo writing, I have spoken in the Introduction. But if we accept the
statement that the Lo writing had anything to do with the making of the /,
we must except Fu-hsi from the sages to whom we are indebted for it. It
was to the Great Yi, more than a thousand years later than Fu-hsi, that the
Lo disclosed its writing; and Yii is never said to have had anything to do
with the /. Nor is either of these things mentioned in Section ii, para-
graph 11, where the work of Fu-shi is described more in detail.

Chapter XII. 75. It is said in the /, ‘Help is given to him from
Heaven. There will be good fortune; advantage in every respect.’
The Master said: —*/ ( oh) is the symbol of assisting. He whom
Heaven assists is observant (of what is right); he whom men assist
is sincere. The individual here indicated treads the path of sin-
cerity and desires to be observant (of what is right), and studies
to exalt the worthy. Hence “Help is given to him from Heaven.
There will be good fortune, advantage in every respect.”’

76. The Master said: — “The written characters are not the full
exponent of speech, and speech is not the full expression of ideas;
—is it impossible then to discover the ideas of the sages?’ The
Master said: —‘The sages made their emblematic symbols to set
forth fully their ideas; appointed (all) the diagrams to show fully
the truth and falsehood (of things); appended their explanations
THE GREAT TREATISE 397

to give the full expression of their words; and changed (the various
lines) and made general the method of doing so, to exhibit fully
what was advantageous. They (thus) stimulated (the people) as by
drums and dances, thereby completely developing the spirit-like
(character of the 7).

77. May we not say the Ch’ien and Kun [= the yang and yin,
or the undivided and divided lines] are the secret and substance of
the /? Ch'ien and K'un being established in their several places,
the system of changes was thereby constituted. If Ch’ien and K'un
were taken away, there would be no means of seeing that system;
and if that system were not seen, Ch’ien and K’un would almost
cease to act.

78. Hence that which is antecedent to the material form exists,
we say, as an ideal method, and that which is subsequent to the
material form exists, we say, as a definite thing.

Transformation and shaping is what we call change; carrying
this out and operating with it is what we call generalising the
method; taking the result and setting it forth for all the people
under heaven is, we say, (securing the success of) the business of
life.

79. Hence, to speak of the emblematic figures: — (The sage) was
able to survey all the complex phenomena under the sky. He then
considered in his mind how they could be figured, and (by means
of the diagrams) represented their material forms and their char-
acter. Hence those (diagrams) are denominated Semblances. A
(later) sage was able to survey the motive influences working all
under the sky. He contemplated them in their common action and
special nature, in order to bring out the standard and proper ten-
dency of each. He then appended his explanation (to each line), to
determine the good or evil indicated by it. Hence those (lines with
their explanations) are denominated Imitations (the Yao).

80. The most thorough mastery of all the complex phenomena
under the sky is obtained from the diagrams. The greatest stimu-
lus to movement in adaptation to all affairs under the sky is ob-
tained from the explanations.

81. The transformations and shaping that take place are ob-
tained from the changes (of the lines); the carrying this out and
operating with it is obtained from the general method (that has
been established). The seeing their spirit-like intimations and
understanding them depended on their being the proper men;
and the completing (the study of) them by silent meditation, and
securing the faith of others without the use of words, depended
on their virtuous conduct:
398 LecGE’s AppENDIXES 11I-V]]

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter” XII, paragraphs 75-81, endeavours to show how we have in
the / a representation of the changing phenomena of nature, and such a
representation as words or speech could not convey.

Paragraph 75 has a good meaning, taken by itself; but it has no apparent
connexion with the rest of the chapter. Chu Hsi thought it was misplaced
in its present position, and should be at the end of chapter 8. Compare
paragraph 14.

The first two statements of paragraph 76 are general, but made here
specially to exalt the J, as teaching more clearly and fully than written
characters could have done. The K’ang-hsi editors decide that ‘the em-
blematic figures’ here are the eight trigrams of Fu-hsi,— against the view
of Chu Hsi, which restricts them to signify the undivided and divided
lines. The repetition of the words, ‘The Master said, is probably the error
of an early transcriber.

Paragraphs 77 and 78 refer to the phenomena of nature and the course of
human affairs, as suggesting and controlling the formation of the system
of the /. The formation of that becomes the subject in paragraph 79. Ch’ien
and K’un are used, as we have already seen them more than once, for the
active and inactive conditions in nature, indicated by the divided and un-
divided lines. It is difficult to translate what is said in paragraph 78, about
Tao and Ch'i; — what I have called, ‘an ideal method’ and ‘a definite’ thing.
P. Regis translates the text by — ‘Quod non est inter figurata aut corporea
sed supereminet est rationale, est ratio, Tao; quod (est) inter figurata sub-
jacetque certae figurae ist sensibile, est instrumentum.’” But tao cannot here
signify ratio or reason; for tao and chi are names for the same thing under
different conditions; first as a possibility, and next as an actuality. Such is
the natural interpretation of the text, and so all the great scholars of the
Sung dynasty construed it, as may be seen in the ‘Collected Comments’ of
the imperial edition. So far they were correct, however many of them
might stumble and fall in confounding this ‘ideal method’ with God.

What follows in the paragraph has no connexion with these two state-
ments. P. Regis, who divides his translation into two paragraphs, says: —
‘Satis patet utramque textus hujus partem non cohaerere. Quod ergo illas
divisimus, id fecimus majoris perspicuitatis causa, non ratione ordinis qui
certe nullus est, ut in re potius assuta quam connexa.’

Paragraph 79 is a repetition of paragraphs 38, 39, ‘to introduce,’ say$
Chu His, ‘the two paragraphs’ that follow.

The editors of the imperial edition find in 80, 81, an amplification mainly
of 76, showing how what is said there of the natural phenomena is ex-
hibited in the /. The concluding sentence is a declaration (hardly neces:
sary) about the sage makers, to the effect that they were as distinguished
for virtuous conduct as for wisdom, — ‘the proper men’ to stand between
Heaven and the mass of men as they did.
Jue GREAT TREATISE 399

Section IT,

Chapter I. 1. The eight trigrams having been completed in their
proper order, there were in each the (three) emblematic lines. They
were then multiplied by a process of addition till the (six) compo-
nent lines appeared.

2. The strong line and the weak push themselves each into the
place of the other, and hence the changes (of the diagrams) take
place. The appended explanations attach to every form of them its
character (of good or ill), and hence the movements (suggested by
divination) are determined accordingly.

3. Good fortune and ill, occasion for repentance or regret, all
arise from these movements.

4. The strong and the weak (lines) have their fixed and proper
places (in the diagrams); their changes, however varied, are ac-
cording to the requirements of the time (when they take place).

5. Good fortune and ill are continually prevailing each against
the other by an exact rule.

6. By the same rule, heaven and earth, in their course, con-
tinually give forth (their lessons); the sun and moon continually
emit their light; all the movements under the sky are constantly
subject to this one and the same rule.

7. Chien, (the symbol of heaven, and) conveying the idea of
strength, shows to men its easy (and natural) action. K’un, (the
symbol of earth, and) conveying the idea of docility, shows to
men its compendious (receptivity and operation).

8. The Yao (or lines) are imitative representations of this. The
Hsiang, or emblematic figures, are pictorial representations of the
same.

9. The movements of the lines and figures take place (at the
hand of the operator), and are unseen; the good fortune or ill is
seen openly and is beyond. The work to be done appears by the
changes; the sympathies of the sages are seen in their explanations.

10. The great attribute of heaven and earth is the giving and
maintaining life. What is most precious for the sage is to get the
(highest) place —(in which he can be the human representative of
heaven and earth). What will guard this position for him? Men.
How shall he collect a large population round him? By the power
of his wealth. The right administration of that’ wealth, correct
instructions to the people, and prohibitions against wrong-doing;
~—these constitute his righteousness.
400 LEcGE’s AppENDIXEs II-VI]

LEGGE’S NOTES

Charger I, paragraphs 1-10, is an amplification, according to K'ung
Ying-ta and the editors of the imperial edition of the present dynasty, of
the second chapter of Section i. The latter say that as all the chapters of
Section i from the third onwards serve to elucidate chapter 2, so it is with
this chapter and all that follow in this Section. The formation of the dia-
grams, and of their several lines, their indication of good fortune and bad,
and the analogy between the processes of nature and the operations of
divination, and other kindred subjects, are all touched on.

The order of the eight trigrams in paragraph 1, is ch’ien, tui, Ii, chen,
sun, k’an, ken, k'un. The three lines of each are emblematic, — the first of
heaven, the second of man, the third of earth. This is the most likely ex-
planation of hsiang, ‘the emblems’ or ‘similitudes’ here. Why the maker —
‘sages’ — stopt at sixty-four figures, of six lines each, is a question that can-
not be answered.

Paragraph 2. Of course it was a great delusion to suppose that the
changes of lines consequent on divination could be so connected with the
movements of life as to justify the characterising them as good or evil, or
afford any guidance in the ordering of conduct.

Paragraph 4. Who can tell ‘the requirements of the time’ amid the com-
plexity of the phenomena of nature or the ever-varying events of human
experience and history? The wiser men are, the more correct will be their
judgments in such matters; but is there any reason for trusting to divina-
tion about them?

Paragraphs 5, 6. It is difficult to say what is ‘the exact rule’ intended
here; unless it be that the factors in every movement shall act according to
their ‘proper nature. The K’ang-hsi editors say: — ‘We see the good some-
times meeting with misfortune, and the bad with good fortune; but such
is not the general rule’ “The lessons that heaven and earth give forth’ are
those concerning the method of their operation as stated in paragraph 7,
and more fully in 6, 7, 8 of Section i.

What is said in paragraph 10 is striking and important, and in harmony
with the general strain of Confucian teaching; —as in the Great Learning,
chapter 10, and many other places; but I fail to see its appropriateness in
its present place in the /.

Chapter IL 11. Anciently, when Pao-hsi had come to the rule
of all under heaven, looking up, he contemplated the brilliant
forms exhibited in the sky, and looking down he surveyed the
patterns shown on the earth. He contemplated the ornamental ap-
pearances of birds and beasts and the (different) suitabilities of the
soil. Near at hand, in his own person, he found things for con-
sideration, and the same at a distance, in things in general. On
this he devised the eight trigrams, to show fully the attributes of
THE GREAT TREATISE 401

the spirit-like and intelligent (operations working secretly), and
to classify the qualities of the myriads of things.

12. He invented the making of nets of various kinds by knitting
strings, both for hunting and fishing. The idea of this was taken,
probably, from Li (the third trigram, and thirtieth hexagram).

13. On the death of Pao-hsi, there arose Shen-neng (in his place).
He fashioned wood to form the share, and bent wood to make the
plough-handle. ‘The advantages of ploughing and weeding were
then taught to all under heaven. The idea of this was taken, prob-
ably, from I (the forty-second hexagram).

14. He caused markets to be held at midday, thus bringing to-
gether all the people, and assembling in one place all their wares.
They made their exchanges and retired, every one having got
what he wanted. The idea of this was taken, probably, from Shih
Ho (the twenty-first hexagram).

15. After the death of Shen-neng, there arose Huang Ti, Yao,
and Shun. They carried through the (necessarily occurring)
changes, so that the people did (what was required of them) with-
out being wearied; yea, they exerted such a spirit-like transforma-
tion, that the people felt constrained to approve their (ordinances)
as right. When a series of changes has run all its course, another
change ensues. When it obtains free course, it will continue long,
Hence it was that ‘these (sovereigns) were helped by Heaven;
they had good fortune, and their every movement was advanta-
geous.” Huang Ti, Yao, and Shun (simply) wore their upper and
lower garments (as patterns to the people), and good order was
secured all under heaven. The idea of all this was taken, probably,
from Chien and K’un (the first and eighth trigrams, or the first
and second hexagrams).

16. They hollowed out trees to form canoes; they cut others
long and thin to make oars. Thus arose the benefit of canoes and
oars for the help of those who had no means of intercourse with
others. They could now reach the most distant parts, and all under
heaven were benefited. The idea of this was taken, probably, from
Huan (the fifty-ninth hexagram).

17. They used oxen (in carts) and yoked horses (to chariots),
thus providing for the carriage of what was heavy, and for distant
journeys, — thereby benefiting all under the sky. The idea of this
was taken, probably, from Sui (the seventeenth hexagram).

18. They made the (defence of the) double gates, and (the warn-
ing of) the clapper, as a preparation against the approach of ma-
rauding visitors. The idea of this was taken, probably, from Yi
(the sixteenth hexagram).
402 Lecece’s AppENnDIXxEs II-VI]

19. They cut wood and fashioned it into pestles; they dug in the
ground and formed mortars. Thus the myriads of the people
received the benefit arising from the use of the pestle and mortar.
The idea of this was taken, probably, from Hsiao Kuo (the sixty-
second hexagram).

20. They bent wood by means of string so as to form bows, and
sharpened wood so as to make arrows. This gave the benefit of
bows and arrows, and served to produce everywhere a feeling of
awe. The idea of this was taken, probably, from K’uei (the thirty-
eighth hexagram).

21. In the highest antiquity they made their homes (in winter)
in caves, and (in summer) dwelt in the open country. In sub-
sequent ages, for these the sages substituted houses, with the ridge-
beam above and the projecting roof below, as a provision against
wind and rain. The idea of this was taken, probably, from Ta
Chuang (the thirty-fourth hexagram).

22. When the ancients buried their dead, they covered the body
thickly with pieces of wood, having laid it in the open country.
They raised no mound over it, nor planted trees around; nor had
they any fixed period for mourning. In subsequent ages the sages
substituted for these practices the inner and outer coffins. The
idea of this was taken, probably, from Ta Kuo (the twenty-eighth
hexagram).

23. In the highest antiquity, government was carried on suc-
cessfully by the use of knotted cords (to preserve the memory of
things). In subsequent ages the sages substituted for these written
characters and bonds. By means of these (the doings of) all the
officers could be regulated, and (the affairs of) all the people ac-
curately examined. The idea of this was taken, probably, from
Kuai (the forty-third hexagram).

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter II, paragraphs 11-23, treats of the progress of civilisation in
China, and how the great men of antiquity who led the way in the various
steps of that progress were guided by the /. Only five of these are men-
tioned; — the first, Fu-hsi, the beginning of whose reign, according to the
least unlikely of the chronological accounts, must be placed in the 34th
century B.c., while Shun’s reign ended in B.c. 2203. The time embraced
in this chapter therefore is about twelve centuries and a half. But the writer
gives his own opinion that the various discoveries and inventions men-
tioned were suggested to their authors by certain hexagrams of the I.
The most commonly received view, however, is that Fu-hsi had only the
eight trigrams, and that the multiplication of them to the 64 hexagrams was
the work of King Wen, fully a thousand years later than Shun. This is the
view of the editors of the imperial /. If it be contended that Fu-hsi himself
1 HE GREAT TREATISE 403

multiplied his trigrams, and gave their names to the resulting hexagrams,
how could he have wrapped up in them the intimations of discoveries
which were not made till many centuries after his death? The statements in
the chapter cannot be received as historical. It came from another hand,
and not from Confucius himself. The writer or compiler gives the legends
current about the various inventions of his time. The making of the tri-
grams is placed first of all to do honour to the J. The account of it is dif-
ferent from that given in paragraph 73 of the former Section, and we hear
nothing of the Ho map or Lo writing.

Paragraph 11. Pao-hsi here and in 13 is the same as Fu-hsi. As Pao is
written here, there is no meaning in it; but another character, Phao (
is more common, and Phao-hsi would mean the inventor of the kitchen and
cookery. This was the first step towards civilisation, and was appropri-
ately followed by the hunting and fishing—both by means of nets—in
paragraph 12.

Paragraphs 13, 14 celebrate the work of Shen-neng, ‘the marvellous or
spirit-like husbandman.” There was no metal about the primitive plough.
The market for the exchange of commodities, without the use of coin, was
an important advance.

The invention of the robes, or of dress, mentioned in paragraph 15,
would seem to show that previously men had been in a very rude state. The
passage indicates, however, the courtesies and proprieties of social life, in
which dress plays an important part, and which now began to be organised.

The infant navigation in paragraph 16 was as little inelebited to the use
of metal as the agriculture of 13.

Paragraphs 17 and 18 show that in those primitive times there were
already the practices of rapine and war. ‘The double gates’ were those of
the city wall, and of the enclosed suburb. The clapper may still be heard
all over China. Bows and arrows, however, came rather later, as in 20.

[ suppose ‘the sages’ in paragraphs 21, 22, 23 refer generally to the great
names mentioned in the previous chapters; nor can we define the distinc~
tion in the writer or compiler's mind between ‘antiquity’ and ‘the highest
antiquity.” Compare what is said on the rise of the coffin in 22 with Men-
cius’ remarks on the same subject in Book I11, ii, 5.4. He would hardly have
expressed himself as he did, if he had been familiar with this text. The in-
vention of written characters is generally ascribed to Fu-hsi. Paragraph 23
does not say so, but the inventor is said to have been a sage of a subsequent
age to the time of ‘high antiquity.’ That ‘high antiquity’ must stretch back
very far.

Chapter IIL. 24. Therefore what we call the / is (a collection of)
emblematic lines. They are styled emblematic as is being resem-
blances.

25. What we call the [Judgment] (or King Wen’s explanations)
are based on the significance (of each hexagram as a whole).

26. We call the lines (of the figures) Yao from their being ac-
cording to the movements taking place all under the sky.
404 LeccE’s AppEnDIXEs [II-VI]

27. In this way (we see) the rise of good fortune and evil, and
the manifestation of repentance and regret.

LEGGE'§ NOTES

Chapter III, paragraphs 24-27, treats of the / as made up of figurative
diagrams, which again are composed of lines ever changing, in accordance
with the phenomena of nature and human experience, while to the re-
sulting figures their moral character and providential issues are appended
by the sages. It may be regarded as an epitome of chapter 2 in Section i.

Paragraph 24. It is observed by the editors of the imperial edition that a
chapter should not begin with a ‘therefore;” and they are inclined to agree
with many critics who would enter this as the last paragraph of the pre-
ceding chapter. In that case it would be a summing-up of the concluding
sentences of the different paragraphs, the truth and genuineness of which
are deservedly suspected. The characters for ‘therefore, however, are very
loosely used in these Appendixes.— The lines, as they were intended by
Fu-hsi, were emblematic; and they are still more so, as interpreted by the
duke of Chou. Meanings are drawn from the figures that resemble or illus-
trate principles in the subjects to which they are applied.

Paragraph 25. The character rendered ‘the significance’ means materials,
and is illustrated by reference to all the different materials out of which a
house is composed. So there are half-a-dozen things about the diagrams,
their lineal structure, emblematic intention, their attributes, &c., out of
which their interpretation is fashioned.

Paragraph 26. E. g. an undivided line may appear in an odd place, which
is right, or in an even place, which is wrong; and the case is the opposite
with the divided lines. But what has this to do with the right or wrong of
the events divined about?

Chapter IV. 28. In the Yang trigrams (or those of the undi-
vided line) there are more of the Yin lines, and in the Yin trigrams
(or those of the divided line) there are more of the Yang lines.

29. What is the cause of this? It is because the Yang lines are
odd (or made by one stroke), and the Yin lines are even (or made
by two strokes).

30. What (method of) virtuous conduct is thus intimated? In the
Yang trigrams we have one ruler, and two subjects, — suggesting
the way of the superior man. In the Yin trigrams we have two
rulers, and one subject, — suggesting the way of the small man.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter IV, paragraphs 28-30. Of the distinction of the trigrams into
Yang and Yin.

The trigrams that contain only one undivided line—chen (==),
k'an (==), and ken (= ==) —are called Yang. The undivided line is

 

 
THE GREAT TREATISE 405

called ‘the lord’ in them. It is just the opposite with the Yin trigrams, in
which there are two undivided lines, and one divided,—sun (===), li
(===), and tui (===). These together constitute the ‘six children,” or
‘three sons’ and ‘three daughters’ in the later arrangement of the trigrams,
ascribed to King Wen.

Paragraph 29. Each part of the divided line counts as one; hence a yang
trigram counts as 1 + 2+ 2 = 5 strokes, four of which are yin, while a yin
trigram counts as 2 + 1 + 1 = 4, only two of which are yang. But this is
mere trifling.

In explanation of paragraph 30 it is said that ‘we have in the yang tri-
grams two (or more) subjects serving one ruler, and in the yin one subject
serving two rulers, and two rulers striving together for the allegiance of
one subject.” This is ingenious, but fanciful; as indeed this distinction of
the trigrams into a yang class and a yin is a mere play of fancy.

 

 

 

Chapter V. 31. It is said in the /, ‘Full of anxious thoughts you
go and come; (only) friends will follow you and think with you’
The Master said: — ‘In all (the processes taking place) under heaven,
what is there of thinking? what is there of anxious scheming? They
all come to the same (successful) issue, though by different paths;
there is one result, though there might be a hundred anxious
schemes. What is there of thinking? what is there of anxious
scheming?’

32. The sun goes and the moon comes; the moon goes and the
sun comes; —the sun and moon thus take the place each of the
other, and their shining is the result. The cold goes and the heat
comes; the heat goes and the cold comes; —it is by this mutual
succession of the cold and heat that the year is completed. That
which goes becomes less and less, and that which comes waxes
more and more; —it is by the influence on each other of this con-
traction and expansion that the advantages (of the different con-
ditions) are produced.

33. When the looper coils itself up, it thereby straightens itself
again; when worms and snakes go into the state of hybernation,
they thereby keep themselves alive. (So), when we minutely in-
vestigate the nature and reasons (of things), till we have entered
Into the inscrutable and spirit-like in them, we attain to the largest
practical application of them; when that application becomes the
quickest and readiest, and all personal restfulness is secured, our
virtue is thereby exalted.

34. Going on beyond this, we reach a point which it is hardly
possible to know. We have thoroughly comprehended the in-
Scrutable and spirit-like, and know the processes of transforma-
tion; — this is the fulness of virtue.
406 LeceE’s AppENDIXEs 1II-V]]

35. Itis said in the 1, (The third line shows its subject) distressed
before a rock, and trying to lay hold of thorns; entering into hig
palace and not seeing his wife: —there will be evil” The Master
said: — Jf one be distressed by what need not distress him, his
name is sure to be disgraced; if he lay hold on what he should not
touch, his life is sure to be imperilled. In disgrace and danger, his
death will (soon) come; —is it possible for him in such circum-
stances to see his wife?’

36. It is said in the /, “The duke with (his bow) shoots at the
falcon on the top of the high wall; he hits it: —his every movement
will be advantageous.’ The Master said: —“The falcon is a bird (of
prey); the bow and arrow is a weapon (of war); the shooter is a
man. The superior man keeps his weapon concealed about his
person, and waits for the proper time to move; —doing this, how
should his movement be other than successful? There is nothing
to fetter or embarrass his movement; and hence, when he comes
forth, he succeeds in his object. The language speaks of move-
ment when the instrument necessary to it is ready and perfect.’

37. The Master said: — “The small man is not ashamed of what
is not benevolent, nor does he fear to do what is not righteous.
Without the prospect of gain he does not stimulate himself to
what is good, nor does he correct himself without being moved.
Self-correction, however, in what is small will make him careful
in what would be of greater consequence; —and this is the hap-
piness of the small man. It is said in the /, “His feet are in the
stocks, and he is disabled in his toes: —there will be no (further)
occasion for blame.”’

38. If acts of goodness be not accumulated, they are not sufficient
to give its finish to one’s name; if acts of evil be not accumulated,
they are not sufficient to destroy one’s life. The small man thinks
that small acts of goodness are of no benefit, and does not do them;
and that small deeds of evil do no harm, and does not abstain from
them. Hence his wickedness becomes great till it cannot be
covered, and his guilt becomes great till it cannot be pardoned.
This is what the / says, ‘He wears the cangue and his ears are
destroyed: — there will be evil.

39. The Master said: — ‘He who keeps danger in mind is he who
will rest safe in his seat; he who keeps ruin in mind is he who will
preserve his interests secure; he who sets the danger of disorder
before him is he who will maintain the state of order. Therefore
the superior man, when resting in safety, does not forget that dan-
ger may come; when in a state of security, he does not forget the
possibility of ruin; and when all is in a state of order, he does not
THE GREAT TREATISE 407

forget that disorder may come. Thus his person is kept safe, and
his states and all their clans can be preserved. This is according to
what the [ says, “(Let him say), ‘Shall I perish? shall I perish?’
(so shall this state be firm, as if) bound to a clump of bushy mul-
berry trees.”’

40. The Master said: —‘Virtue small and office high; wisdom
small and plans great; strength small and burden heavy: —where
such conditions exist, it is seldom that they do not end (in evil).
As is said in the /, “The tripod’s feet are overthrown, and the
ruler’s food is overturned. The body of him (who is thus indicated)
is wet (with shame): — there will be evil.”’

41. The Master said: — ‘Does not he who knows the springs of
things possess spirit-like wisdom? The superior man, in his inter-
course with the high, uses no flattery, and, in his intercourse with
the low, no coarse freedom: —does not this show that he knows
the springs of things? Those springs are the slight beginnings of
movement, and the earliest indications of good fortune (or ill). The
superior man sees them, and acts accordingly without waiting for
{the delay of) a single day. As is said in the /, “He is firm as a rock,
(and acts) without the delay of a single day. With firm goodness
there will be good fortune.” Firm as a rock, how should he have to
wait a single day to ensure his knowing (those springs and his
course)? The superior man knows the minute and the manifested;
he knows what is weak, and what is strong: —he is a model to
ten thousand.’

42. The Master said: — ‘I may venture to say that the son of the
Yen family had nearly attained (the standard of perfection). If
anything that he did was not good, he was sure to become con-
scious of that; and when he knew it, he did not do the thing again.
As is said in the /, “(The first line shows its subject) returning from
an error that has not led him far away. There is no occasion for
repentance. There will be great good.”’

43. There is an intermingling of the genial influences of heaven
and earth, and transformation in its various forms abundantly
proceeds. There is an intercommunication of seed between male
and female, and transformation in its living types proceeds. What
is said in the /, ‘Three individuals are walking together and one is
made to disappear; there is (but) one man walking, and he gets his
mate,’ tells us of the effort (in nature) at oneness (of operation).

44. The Master said: — ‘The superior man (in a high place) com-
poses himself before he (tries to) move others; makes his mind
restful and easy before he speaks; settles (the principles of) his
Intercourse with others before he seeks anything from them. The
408 LEGcGE’s AprENDIXES 11I-V]]

superior man cultivates these three things, and so is complete. [f
he try to move others while he is himself in unrest, the people wi]
not (act) with him; if he speak while he is himself in a state of ap-
prehamsion, the people will not respond to him; if without (certain
principles of) intercommunication, he issue his requests, the peo-
ple will not grant them. When there are none to accord with him,
those who (work to) injure him will make their appearance. As is
said in the /, “(We see one) to whose advantage none will con-
tribute, while some will seek to assail him. He observes no regular
rule in the ordering of his heart: — there will be evil.”’

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter V, paragraphs 31-44, gives the words of the duke of Chou on
eleven different lines in the Text of the /, along with remarks of Confucius
in farther illustration of them. But they seem also to be intended to bring
forth more fully the meaning of certain previous utterances about the struc-
ture and scope of the /.

Paragraphs 31-34 start from the fourth line of the 31st hexagram, which
would seem merely to require a steady and unvarying purpose in any one,
in order to the full development of his influence. The editors of the im-
perial edition, however, make the whole a sequel of paragraph 5. But
granted that there is no ‘anxious scheming’ in the processes of the natural
world or in the phenomena of insect life, there is really no analogy to their
proceedings in the course of the man who makes himself master of ‘the
nature and reasons of things,” as described in 33 and 34. Nor are ‘the nature
and reasons of things’ to be found in the /, as the writer believed they were.
Such as it is, it requires immense thought to understand it, and when we
have laid hold of it, there is nothing substantial in our grasp. The ‘virtue’
predicated of such attainment is not so much moral excellence, as appre-
hension and the power and ability to invent, and to affect others.

Paragraph 35. See on the third line of K'un, the 47th hexagram. If we
were to translate the explanations of the line after Confucius, we should
put the first two statements hypothetically; but the four that compose it
seem to run on in the same way. They are all, I apprehend, hypothetical.

Paragraph 36. See on the last line of Chieh, the 40th hexagram.

Paragraph 37. See on the first line of Shih Ho, the 21st hexagram. The
‘self-correction in what is small’ implies of course that the small man has
been ‘awed.’ What is said about him here is true; but we hardly expect it
in this place.

Paragraph 38 should probably begin, like those before and after it, with
“The Master said.” The characters quoted from the / are again from the
text of Shih Ho, on the last line.

Paragraph 39. See on the fifth line of P’i, the 12th hexagram.

Paragraph 40 gives Confucius’ views on the fourth line of Ting, the
50th hexagram.
THE GREAT TREATISE 409

In paragraph 41 we are conducted to the 16th hexagram, — the second
line of it. The being ‘firm as a rock’ is understood to symbolise the state of
‘rest,’ the quiet self-possession out of which successful movement and ac-
tion is understood to spring.

In paragraph 42, ‘the son of the Yen family’ is Yen Hui, the favourite
disciple of Confucius. The passage quoted from the / is that on the first
line of Fu, the 24th hexagram.

To paragraph 43, as to paragraph 38, I would prefix the characters for
“The Master said.’ ‘Male and female’ is to be taken generally, and not con-
fined to the individuals of the human pair. One Chinese writer says that in
the transformations ascribed to heaven and earth, birds, fishes, animals, and
plants are included, but from the ‘transformation in its living types’ plants
are excluded, because in their generation there is nothing analogous to the
emission and reception of seed. Other Chinese writers, however, are well
enough acquainted with the sexual system of plants. It would seem to me
that Confucius, if the paragraph were really his, intended only plants or the
vegetable world in his reference to the operation of heaven and earth, and
had all living tribes in view in his mention of male and female. The passage
of the / referred to is on the third line of Sun, the 41st hexagram. The ap-
plication of it is far-fetched.

Paragraph 44. See on the fifth line of I, the 42nd hexagram.

Chapter VI. 45. The Master said: — (The trigrams) Ch’ien and
K’un may be regarded as the gate of the /.” Ch'ien represents what
is of the yang nature (bright and active); K’'un what is of the yin
nature (shaded and inactive). These two unite according to their
qualities, and there comes the embodiment of the result by the
strong and weak (lines). In this way we have the phenomena of
heaven and earth visibly exhibited, and can comprehend the opera-
tion of the spiritual intelligence.

46. The appellations and names (of the diagrams and lines) are
various, but do not go beyond (what is to be ascribed to the opera-
tion of these two conditions). When we examine the nature and
style (of the appended explanations), they seem to express the
ideas of a decaying age.

47. The I exhibits the past, and (teaches us to) discriminate (the
issues of) the future; it makes manifest what is minute, and brings
to light what is obscure. (Then King Wen) opened (its symbols),
and distinguished things in accordance with its names, so that all
his words were correct and his explanations decisive; — (the book)
was now complete.

48. The appellations and names (of the diagrams and lines) are
but small matters, but the classes of things comprehended under
410 LecGE’s AppENDIXES ITI-VII

them are large. Their scope reaches far, and the explanations at-
tached to them are elegant. The words are indirect, but to the
point; the matters seem plainly set forth, but there is a secret prin-
cipleth them. Their object is, in cases that are doubtful, to help the
people in their conduct, and to make plain the recompenses of
good and evil.

LEGGE’S NOTES

The principal object, it is said, of chapter VI, paragraphs 45-48, is to set
forth the views of King Wen and his son in the explanations which they
appended to the diagrams and lines; and in doing this the writer begins
in 45, with Fu-hsi's starting, in the formation of his eight trigrams, from
the devising of the whole and divided lines, to represent the two primitive
forms in nature. The two ‘pure’ trigrams formed of these lines, unmixed,
give rise to all the others, or rather the lines of which they are formed
do so; and are thus compared to a gate by which the various diagrams
enter to complete the system that is intended to represent the changing
phenomena of nature and experience. The next sentence in the above ver-
sion of paragraph 45 appears in Canon McClatchie’s translation of the /, as
follows: — ‘Chien is the membrum virile, and K'un is the pudendum muliebre
(the sakti of Ch'ien).” It is hardly possible, on reading such a version, to sup-
press the exclamation prob pudor! Can a single passage be adduced in sup-
port of it frbm among all the Chinese critics in the line of centuries? I
believe not. The ideas which it expresses are gratuitously and wantonly
thrust into this text of the /. ‘Ch’ien’ and ‘K'un’ are not spoken of thus. If
the latter half of the paragraph be unintelligible, this interpretation of the
former would make the whole disgusting.

In paragraph 46 the writer passes from the work of Fu-hsi to that of
King Wen and his son, and the composition of the written / is referred to
‘a decaying age, —the age, namely, of the tyrant Chou. Then King Wen
and the duke of Chou, it is said, deploring the degeneracy of their times
and the enormities of the government, indicated, by their treatment of the
ancient symbols, their sense of right and wrong, and the methods by which
the prevailing evils might be rectified.

Paragraphs 47 and 48 follow and expand the meaning of 45. The editors
of the imperial edition say that the former sentence of 47 is the sequel of 45,
and the latter of 46, bringing us finally to the explanations and decisions of
King Wen, as the most important portion of the /. Chu Hsi, moreover, ob-
serves that throughout the chapter, as well as in the chapters that follow,
there must be many characters wanting in the text, while there are many
also that are doubtful. This is specially the case with 48. Where the order
of the characters has been disarranged merely, correction is easy; but where
characters are evidently missing, attempts to fill the lacunae are merely
guess-work.
THE GREAT TREATISE 411

Chapter VII. 49. Was it not in the middle period of antiquity
that the / began to flourish? Was not he who made it familiar with
anxiety and calamity?

50. Therefore (the 10th diagram), Lii, shows us the foundation of
virtue; (the 15th), Hsien, its handle; (the 24th), Fu, its root; (the
32nd), Heng, its solidity; (the 41st), Sun, its cultivation; (the 42nd),
I, its abundance; (the 47th), K'un, its exercise of discrimination;
(the 48th), Ching, its field; and (the 57th), Sun, its regulation.

51. In Lii we have the perfection of harmony; in Hsien, we have
the giving honour to others, and the distinction thence arising; in
Fu we have what is small (at first), but there is in it a (nice) dis-
crimination of (the qualities of) things; in Heng we have a mixed
experience, but without any weariness; in Sun we have difficulty
in the beginning and ease in the end; in I we have abundance of
growth without any contrivance; in K’'un we have the pressure of
extreme difficulty, ending in a free course; in Ching we have
abiding in one’s place and at the same time removal (to meet the
movement of others); and in Sun we have the weighing of things
(and action accordingly), but secretly and unobserved.

52. (The use of) Lui appears in the harmony of the conduct; of
Hsien, in the regulation of ceremonies; of Fu, in self-knowledge;
of Heng, in uniformity of virtue; of Sun, in keeping what is harm-
ful at a distance; of L, in the promotion of what is advantageous; of
K’un, in the diminution of resentments; of Ching, in the discrimi-
nation of what is righteous; and of Sun, in the doing of what is
appropriate to time and to circumstances.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VII, paragraphs 49-52, is occupied with nine hexagrams, as
specially indicating how the superior man, or the ruler, should deal with a
time of trouble and solicitude, specially by the cultivation of his own virtue.
Not, we are told, that the same thing might not be learned from other dia-
grams, but these nine specially occurred to the writer, or, as many think,
to Confucius.

Paragraph 49 is important as agreeing in its testimony with 46. The /
was made in middie-antiquity; that is, in the end of the Shang dynasty, and
the rise of the Chou, and the maker or makers had personal and public rea-
sons for anxiety about the signs of the times.

Paragraph 50 shows the particular phase of virtue-in each of the nine
hexagrams that are mentioned; 51, the marvellous characteristics of each
phase; and 52, its use. The ‘therefore’ with which paragraph 50 commences
shows the process of thought by which the writer passed from the anxiety
412 LecGE’s ApPrENDIXES [II-VI]

that possessed the mind of the author of the / to the use to be derived, in
such circumstances, from the study of Lii and the other hexagrams.

Chapter VIII. 53. The / is a book which should not be let slip
frgm the mind. Its method (of teaching) is marked by the frequent
changing (of its lines). They change and move without staying (in
one place), flowing about into any one of the six places of the hexa-
gram. They ascend and descend, ever inconstant. The strong and
the weak lines change places, so that an invariable and compendi-
ous rule cannot be derived from them;—it must vary as their
changes indicate.

54. The goings forth and comings in (of the lines) are according
to rule and measure. (People) learn from them in external and
internal affairs to stand in awe.

55. (The book), moreover, makes plain the nature of anxieties
and calamities, and the causes of them. Though (its students) have
neither master nor guardian, it is as if their parents drew near to
them.

56. Beginning with taking note of its explanations, we reason
out the principles to which they point. We thus find out that it
does supply a constant and standard rule. But if there be not the
proper men (to carry this out), the course cannot be pursued with-
out them.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VIII, paragraphs 53-56, describes the method of studying the
I as consisting very much in watching the changes that take place in the
lines, and reflecting on the appended explanations; while, after all, much
must depend on there being ‘the proper men,’ to carry its lessons into
practice.

There seems to be a contradiction between the statements in paragraphs
53 and 56 about the book supplying, and not supplying, a standard rule;
but the meaning, probably, is that while it does not give a rule generally
applicable, it gives rules for particular cases.

Chu Hsi says he does not understand 54, and thinks some characters
must have been lost. “The six places of the hexagram’ in 53 are, literally,
‘the six empties.” The places are so called, because it is only a temporary

possession of them, which is held by the fugitive lines, whether whole or
divided.

Chapter IX. 57. The / is a book in which the form (of each dia-
gram) is determined by the lines from the first to the last, which
THe GREAT TREATISE 413

must be carefully observed. The six lines are mixed together, ac-
cording to the time (when they enter the figure) and their sub-
stance (as whole and divided).

58. There is difficulty in knowing (the significance of) the first
line, while to know that of the topmost line is easy;—they form
the beginning and the end (of the diagram). The explanation of the
first line tasks the calculating (of the makers), but in the end they
had (but) to complete this.

59. As to the variously-disposed intermediate lines with their
diverse formations, for determining their qualities, and discrimi-
nating the right and wrong in them, we should be unprovided but
for the explanations of them.

60. Yea, moreover, if we wish to know what is likely to be pre-
served and what to perish, what will be lucky and what will be
unlucky, this may easily be known (from the explanations of the
different lines). But if the wise will look at the explanations of the
entire diagrams, their thoughts will embrace more than half of
this knowledge.

61. The second and fourth lines are of the same quality (as being
in even places), but their positions (with respect to the fifth line)
are different, and their value is not the same; but the second is the
object of much commendation, and the fourth the subject of many
apprehensions, — from its nearness (to that line). But for a line in a
place of weakness it is not good to be far (from the occupant of the
place of strength), and what its subject should desire in such a case
is (merely) to be without blame. The advantage (here) is in (the
second line) being in the central place.

62. The third and fifth lines are of the same quality, (as being in
odd places), but their positions are different, and the (occupant of)
the third meets with many misfortunes, while the occupant of the
fifth achieves much merit:—this arises from one being in the
noble position and the other in the mean. Are they occupied by
the symbol of weakness? There will be peril. By that of strength?
There will be victory.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter IX, paragraphs 56-62, speaks of the hexagrams as made up of
the different lines, and various things to be attended to in those lines to
determine their meaning. .

Paragraph 57. The time or order in which the lines enter determines of
course the place and number of each in the figure. Their ‘substance’ is
their form, as whole or divided, being yang or yin.
414 Leece’s Appenpixes III-VII

Paragraph 58 belongs to the first and sixth lines. We are hardly pre-
pared for the statement that ‘the maker or makers’ had so much difficulty
in determining the meaning of the first line. Of course when they had fixed
that and completed the figure, explaining all the lines, it was easy for the
student to follow their exposition, as paragraph 59 says.

Paragraph 60 seems to say that the work of the duke of Chou on each
line was but an indicating in detail of the processes of his father’s mind in
explaining the whole figure.

The last two paragraphs mention several points important to be at-
tended to in studying, more especially, the duke of Chou on the several
lines. Three different views of the concluding statement,—‘are they oc-
cupied,’ &c.,—are given in the imperial edition. ‘It belongs, says Wu
Cheng, to the fifth line,’ ‘to the third line,’ says Hu Ping-wen (also of the
Yiian dynasty); while Han Hsing-kuo (of the T’ang dynasty) held that it
belonged to both. The K’ang-hsi editors say that ‘by discriminating and
combining these views, we get to the meaning of the text.’ I am unable to
do so.

Chapter X. 63. The / is a book of wide comprehension and great
scope, embracing everything. There are in it the way of heaven,
the way of man, and the way of earth. It then takes (the lines
representing) those three Powers, and doubles them till they
amount to six. What these six lines show is simply this,—the way
of the three Powers.

64. This way is marked by changes and movements, and hence
we have the imitative lines. Those lines are of different grades (in
the trigrams), and hence we designate them from their component
elements. These are mixed together, and elegant forms arise. When
such forms are not in their appropriate places, the ideas of good
fortune and bad are thus produced.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter X, paragraphs 63, 64, speaks of the great comprehensiveness
of the /, its figures and explanations being applicable to the three Powers —
heaven, earth, and man.

With paragraph 63, compare paragraph 4, Appendix VI. In the trigram
the upper line represents heaven, the middle line man, and the lowest
earth. This paragraph and that other are the nearest approach I know to
an attempt to account for the doubling of the number of lines, and stopping
with the hexagram, but the doing so was entirely arbitrary. Chu Hsi says:
— ‘The upper two characters belong to heaven, the middle two to man, and
the lower two to earth.’ No words could be more express; and yet Canon
McClatchie says (p. 354): —“The two upper strokes represent Heaven, or
THE GREAT TREATISE 415

T’ai-i, the husband; the two middle strokes, Earth, his wife; and the two
lower strokes, Man, their son; all being animated by the same Divine
Reason (tao) or Supreme God (Chih Shen). This note shows how one
error, or misunderstanding of the Chinese original, draws other errors
with it. The character tao in the paragraph has not at all the sense of rea-
son, human or divine; but its primary and ordinary signification of the path
or course. As Lu Chi (Han dynasty) says: —‘In the way of heaven there
are the changes of day and night, sun and moon; in that of earth, those of
hardness and softness, dryness and moisture; in that of man, those of action
and rest, of movement and stillness, of good fortune and bad, of good and
evil’

‘The imitative lines’ in the translation of 64, is simply ‘the Yao’ in the
Chinese text which I have rendered according to the account of them in
paragraph 8, et al. Their different grades are their position as high or low
in the figures (paragraph I, Section i), and their ‘component elements,’
literally ‘their substance, or thing-nature,’ is their structure as being yang
or yin, according to the use of wuh in paragraphs 57, 59, et al. A yang line
in an even place, or a yin line in an odd, is not in its appropriate place, and
gives an indication of what is bad.

Chapter XI. 65. Was it not in the last age of Yin, when the virtue
of Chou had reached its highest point, and during the troubles be-
tween King Wen and (the tyrant) Chou, that the (study of the /)
began to flourish? On this account the explanations (in the book)
express (a feeling of) anxious apprehension, (and teach) how peril
may be turned into security, and easy carelessness is sure to meet
with overthrow. The method in which these things come about is
very comprehensive, and must be acknowledged in every sphere
of things. If at the beginning there be a cautious apprehension as
to the end, there will probably be no error or cause for blame.
This is what is called the way of the 1.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter XI, paragraph 65. P. Regis observes on this chapter: —‘I do not
hesitate to say that there is found nowhere in the whole / a passage which
affords more light for the explanation of the book.” Paragraph 49 told us
that ‘the study of the / flourished in the middle period of antiquity, and
that the author of it was familiar with anxiety and troubles.’ That informa-
tion becomes here more particular. The /, existing when this Appendix
was written, was made in the closing period of the Yin dynasty, and the
making of it was somehow connected with the attempts of the tyrant Chou
against King Wen. We are not told expressly that the book was written,
in part at least, by King Wen; but the tradition to that effect derives a cer-
tain amount of support from what is said here. The general object of the
416 Legee’s AppenpIxEs III-VI]

author is also stated clearly enough, —to inculcate a cautious and reverent
administration of affairs, never forgetful of the uncertainties of life and
fortune. .

Chapter XII. 66. (The hexagram) Ch’ien represents the strongest
@ all under the sky. Through this quality its operations are al-
ways manifested with ease, for it knows where there would be
peril and embarrassment. (The hexagram) K’un represents the
most docile of all under the sky. Through this quality its opera-
tions are always manifested with the promptest decision, for it
knows where there would be obstruction.

67. (The sages, who are thus represented, and who made the /,)
were able to rejoice in heart (in the absolute truth of things), and
were able (also) to weigh carefully all matters that could occasion
anxiety; (thus) they fixed the good and bad fortune (of all things)
under the sky, and could accomplish the things requiring strenu-
ous efforts. .

68. Therefore amid the changes and transformations (taking
place in heaven and earth), and the words and deeds of men,
events. that are to be fortunate have their happy omens. (The
sages) knew the definite principles underlying the prognostications
of the former class, and the future of those of the latter, (now to be)
ascertained by divination.

69. The places of heaven and earth (in the diagrams) having
been determined, the sages were able (by means of the /) to carry
out and complete their ability. (In this way even) the common peo-
ple were able to share with them in (deciding about) the counsels
of men and the counsels of spiritual beings.

70. The eight trigrams communicate their information by their
emblematic figures. The explanations appended to the lines and
the completed figures tell how the contemplation of them affected
(the makers). The strong and the weak lines appear mixed in them,
and (thus) the good and the evil (which they indicate) can be seen.

71. The changes and movements (which take place in the ma-
nipulation of the stalks and the formation of the diagrams) speak
as from the standpoint of what is advantageous. The (intimations
of) good and evil vary according to the place and nature (of the
lines). Thus they may indicate a mutual influence (in any two of
them) of love or hatred, and good or evil is the result; or that
mutual influence may be affected by the nearness of the lines to,
or their distance from each other, and then repentance or regret
is the result; or the influence may be that of truth or of hypocrisy,
and then the result is what is advantageous, or what is injurious.
THE GREAT TREATISE 417

In all these relations of the (lines in the) I, if two are near and do
not blend harmoniously, there may be (all these results), —evil, or
what is injurious, or occasion for repentance and regret.

72. The language of him who is meditating a revolt (from the
right) betrays his mmward shame; that of him whose inward heart
doubts about it diverges to other topics. The words of a good man
are few; those of a coarse man are many. The words of one who
slanders what is good are unsubstantial; those of him who is losing
what he ought to keep are crooked.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter XII, paragraphs 66-72, is generally divided into three sections;
—the first, embracing 66-68, and treating of the sages, the makers of the /,
as themselves independent of it, knowing all that it enables us to know,
and able to accomplish all that it enables us to accomplish; the second, em-
bracing 69-71, and telling how the sages formed the /, and made all men,
by means of it, partakers of their now unlimited knowledge and power; the
third, comprised in paragraph 72, and saying, if it be genuine and in its
proper place, that the ordinary speech of men is as mysterious and indica-
tive of what is in them, as the explanations of the / are, when we consider
who were its authors.

“The sages,” who are the subject of 65 —68, are not mentioned in the text;
but 67 makes it plain that the subject must be some personal being or
beings. Neither Chien nor K'un can ‘rejoice in heart, and weigh carefully
matters occasioning anxiety.” The commentators generally interpolate
‘the sages;’ even Ying-ta of the T"ang dynasty, who does not introduce the
sages in his exposition, yet makes the subject to be ‘the disposer and
nourisher of all things.” He gets to his view by an unnatural interpretation
of two characters in 67, which are now thrown out of the text by all critics
as not genuine. That ‘the sages’ is really the subject in the mind of the
writer appears from the express mention of them in 69, when also ‘heaven
and earth’ take the place of Ch’ien and K’un. It is absurd, not to say blas-
phemous, to assume that the sages who made the / had the knowledge and
ability here ascribed to them; but the theory of the / as containing a scheme
for the discovery of the future necessitated the ascribing such attributes
to them. Compare with the whole Section, and especially with paragraph
68, what is said in ‘the Doctrine of the Mean,” chapter 24.

The first Section shows how the sages were themselves independent of
the /, and had no need of it; the second goes on to tell how they devised
and constructed it, to make all men equal to themselves in a knowledge of
phenomena and human events, and of their indications of, and issues in,
the future. Summing up its lessons, the editors of the imperial edition say,
‘Thére is no passage in the Appendix more full and clear than this on the
five points in regard to the lines which the student of the / has to attend to.
Those points are: —their time, position, quality, mutual nearness, and re-
sponsive relation. It is by a consideration of the two latter points, more-
418 LecGgE’s AppENnDIXEs [II-VI]

over, that he must form his judgment on their appropriateness or inappro-
priateness in the three others.’

Paragraph 72 has really no connexion with the rest of the chapter. 1
have stated above how the critics attempt to make out such a connexion;
but I agree myself with P. Regis, who appends to his version of the para-
graph this note: —‘Quae sententiae quidem sapiunt doctrinam Confu-
cianam, at non ordinem, utpote cum praecedentibus minime cohaerentes,
sed omnino ab iis abscissae avulsaeque.’
APPENDIX IV

On the First and Second Hexagrams

Supplementary to the [Judgments and the duke

of Chou’s explanations of the lines] on the first and
second Hexagrams, and showing how they may be
interpreted of man’s nature and doings.

Section 1. CHIEN.

Chapter L. 1. What is called (under Ch’ien) ‘the great and origi-
nating’ is (in man) the first and chief quality of goodness; what is
called ‘the penetrating’ is the assemblage of excellences; what is
called ‘the advantageous’ is the harmony of all that is right; and
what is called ‘the correct and firm’ is the faculty of action.

2. The superior man, embodying benevolence, is fit to preside
over men; presenting the assemblage of excellences, he is fit to
show in himself the union of all propriety; benefiting (all) creatures,
he is fit to exhibit the harmony of all that is right; correct and
firm, he is fit to manage (all) affairs.

3. The fact that the superior man practises these four virtues
justifies the application to him of the words —‘Ch’ien represents
what is great and originating, penetrating, advantageous, correct
and firm.’

LEGGE’S NOTES

The title of this Appendix is in Chinese the Wen Yen Chuan, “The
Record of Wen Yen; and according to the analogy of the titles of the three
Appendixes that follow, Wen should perform the part of a verb and Yen
that of a substantive. So the characters are usually taken, and to Wen is
given the meaning of ‘Explaining (Shih); and to Yen that of ‘Words or
Sentences,” meaning the [Judgments] of King Wen, and the Yao [that is,
the explanation of the lines] of the duke of Chou on the first two hexa-
grams. The document treats of these, and of no others. ‘It shows the amount
and depth of meaning in them, says Chu Hsi, ‘and the other hexagrams
may be treated after the analogy supplied here.” Confucius, it is said by
others, died before he was able to carry out the plan which he had formed.
But, as I have shown in the Introduction, it is more than doubtful whether
we have in this Appendix anything at all directly from the sage.
420 LeccE’s AppeEnDIXES [II-VI]

Chapter 1, paragraphs 1-3, shows how the attributes of Ch'ien, as ex-
plained by King Wen, are to be understood of the constituent principles of
human nature. What is remarkable is, that we find paragraphs’1, 2, with
very little variation, in one of the narratives of the Tso Chuan, as having
been spoken by a marchioness-dowager of Lu in B.c. 564, several years
bggpre Confucius was born. One so familiar as Chu Hsi was with all the
classical literature of his country could not be ignorant of this. His solu-
tion of the questions arising from it is, that anciently there was this expla-
nation of the characters of King Wen; that it was employed by Shu Chiang
(of Lu), and that Confucius also availed himself of it; while the chronicler
used, as he does below, the phraseology of “The Master said,” to distinguish
the real words of Confucius from such ancient sayings. But who was this
chronicler? No one can tell. The legitimate conclusion from Chu’s criticism
is this, that so much of this Appendix as is preceded by “The Master said’
is from Confucius; — so much and no more.

The ascription in paragraph 3 of ‘the four virtues’ to the superior or
normal man, man in his best estate, and yet inferior to ‘the sagely man,’ is
Confucian, —after the style of the teaching of the Master in the Analects.

Chapter II. 4. What is the meaning of the words under the first
line undivided, ‘The dragon lies hid (in the deep); —it is not the
time for active doing?’ The Master said: — ‘There he is, with the
powers of the dragon, and yet lying hid. The influence of the
world would make no change in him; he would do nothing (merely)
to secure his fame. He can live, withdrawn from the world, with-
out regret; he can experience disapproval without trouble of mind.
Rejoicing (in opportunity), he carries his principles into action;
sorrowing (for want of opportunity), he keeps with them in re-
tirement. Yes, he is not to be torn from his root (in himself). This
is ‘the dragon lying hid.’

5. What is the meaning of the words under the second line, ‘The
dragon shows himself and is in the field; — it will be advantageous
to see the great man?’ The Master said: — ‘There he is, with the
dragon’s powers, and occupying exactly the central place. He is
sincere (even) in his ordinary words, and earnest in his ordinary
conduct. Guarding against depravity, he preserves his sincerity.
His goodness is recognised in the world, but he does not boast of
it. His virtue is extensively displayed, and transformation ensues.
The language of the /, “The dragon shows himself and is in the
field; — it will be advantageous to see the great man,” refers to a
ruler’s virtue.

6. What is the meaning of the words under the third line, “The
superior man is active and vigilant all the day, and in the evening
(still) careful and apprehensive; —the position is dangerous, but
ON THE FIRST AND SECOND HEXAGRAMS 421

there will be no mistake?” The Master said: — “The superior man
advances in virtue, and cultivates all the sphere of his duty. His
leal-heartedness and good faith are the way by which he advances
in virtue. His attention to his words and establishing his sincerity
are the way by which he occupiés in his sphere. He knows the
utmost point to be reached, and reaches it, thus showing himself
in accord with the first springs (of things); he knows the end to be
rested in, and rests in it, thus preserving his righteousness in ac-
cordance with that end. Therefore he occupies a high position
without pride, and a low position without anxiety. Thus it is that,
being active and vigilant, and careful (also) and apprehensive as
the time requires, though his position be perilous, he will make no
mistake.

7. What is the meaning of the words under the fourth line, ‘He
is as if he were leaping up, (but still) is in the deep; — there will be
no mistake?’ The Master said: —‘He finds no permanent place
either above or below, but he does not commit the error (of ad-
vancing). He may advance or recede; —there is no permanent
place for him: but he does not leave his fellows. The superior man,
advancing in virtue and cultivating the sphere of his duty, yet
wishes (to advance only) at the (proper) time, and therefore there
is no mistake.’

8. What is the meaning of the words under the fifth line, “The
dragon is on the wing in the sky; —it will be advantageous to see
the great man?’ The Master said: — ‘Notes of the same key respond
to one another; creatures of the same nature seek one another;
water flows towards the place that is (low and) damp; fire rises up
towards what is dry; clouds follow the dragon, and winds follow
the tiger: — (so) the sage makes his appearance, and all men look to
him. Things that draw their origin from heaven move towards
what is above; things that draw their origin from the earth cleave
to what is below: so does everything follow its kind.’

9. What is the meaning of the words under the topmost line,
“The dragon exceeds the proper limits; — there will be occasion for
repentance?’ The Master said: — “The position is noble, but it is
not that of office; (its occupant) dwells on high, but he has no peo-
ple (to rule); and the men of talent and virtue in the positions
below will give him no aid; ~ should he move in such a case, there
will be occasion for repentance.’

LEGGE’S NOTES

In chapter II, paragraphs 4-9, Confucius is introduced, explaining, with
considerable amplification, what is said by the duke of Chou under the
422 LeGGeE’s Appenpixes III-VII

several lines of the hexagram. “The dragon’ becomes the symbol of ‘the
superior man,’ and of ‘the great man,’ or the sage upon the throne. The
language approaches at times to the magniloquence of Mencius, while in
paragraph 8 the voice hardly seems to be that of the sage at all.

With paragraph 5, compare chapters 8 and 14 of ‘the Doctrine of the
dean, agreeing much in language and sentiment with what we have here.
The line, a strong or undivided line, and therefore yang, is said to be
‘exactly in the central place; but the line is in the second, and even place,
that proper to a yin line; and in other passages this might be explained in
an unfavourable way. The Chinese character cheng has the meaning given
to it, now of ‘exact,’ and now of ‘correct,’ the latter being always favourably
interpreted.

Paragraph 8. The fifth is almost always the place of honour and au-
thority in the hexagram, and therefore ‘the great man’ here continues to be
the great man, ‘the sage.’ The argument is that as things of the same kind
respond to and seek one another, so is it with the sage and ordinary man.
They are of the same kind, though far apart; and when a sage appears, all
other men look to him with admiration and hope. The continuity of the
illustrations, however, is broken by the introduction of the dragon and
clouds, and the tiger and wind. Are these of the same kind? Chu Hsi says
he does not think that the real dragon and real tiger are intended; but he
does not tell us how he understood the terms. Tsai Ch’ing (early in the
Ming dynasty) says:—‘The dragon feels the influence of the clouds sur-
charged with rain, and rises from the deep, and when the tiger feels the
approach of the cold winds he roars. Thus when the dragon rises, the
clouds are sure to collect; and when the tiger screams, the winds follow,’
but all this does not help us to appreciate any better the words of the text.
And the concluding illustration is nearly as foreign to our way of con-
ceiving things. By ‘things that draw their origin from heaven’ all animals —
moving creatures —are intended; and by those that draw their origin from
the earth are intended all plants, —things that stand and do not move. The
former turn their heads to the sky, and the latter their roots to the earth.
So we read in Chu Hsi; but I continue to wonder that Confucius selected
such illustrations and spoke in such a style.

Paragraph 9. As I have said above, the place of honour and authority
in the hexagram belongs to the fifth line, and no other plays so unimpor-
tant a part as the sixth; and hence it is represented here as having ‘no place’
at all. Before he whom it represents is called to act, the battle has been won
or lost. Movement from him will only accelerate and intensify the result.

Chapter III. 10. “The dragon lies hid;—it is not the time for
active doing:’ — the position is (too) low.

11. ‘The dragon shows himself and is in the field? —the time
(requires him still) to be unemployed.

12. ‘All the day active and vigilant:’— (he now) does his (proper)
business.
ON THE FIRST AND SECOND HEXAGRAMS 423

13. ‘He is as if he were leaping up, (but still) is in the deep:’—
he is making trial of himself.

14. “The dragon is on the wing in the sky: —(the subject of the
line) is on high and ruling.

15. “The dragon exceeds the proper limit, and there will be oc-
casion for repentance:’—when things have been carried to ex-
tremity, calamity ensues.

16. Undivided lines appear in all these representations of the
great and originating power denoted by Chien: —(what follows
in the Yao tells us how) all under the sky there will be good order.

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Chapter IIE paragraphs 10-16, goes over again the Yao of the duke of
Chou with very brief explanations, grounded chiefly on the consideration
of the place or position occupied by the several lines, and the time of their
introduction into the action of the hexagram.

Paragraph 16. See the note on the Text of Ch'ien, corresponding to this
line, page 49, and also that on paragraph 7 of the symbolism of the figures
and lines, Section i. There is the same difficulty in understanding the first
part of the short paragraph; the conclusion of it must be a consequence
of the language of the Yao, though it is not repeated here.

Chapter IV. 17. “The dragon lies hid in the deep; —it is not the
time for active doing:’ — the energy denoted by the undivided line
is laid up and hid away as in the deep.

18. “The dragon appears in the field:"—all under heaven (begins
to be) adorned and brightened.

19. ‘All the day active and vigilant’ — continually, as the time
passes and requires, does he act.

20. ‘He is as if he were leaping up, (but still) is in the deep: —a
change is taking place in the method indicated by (this) Ch'ien
diagram.

21. “The dragon is on the wing in the sky:’— this shows that his
place is based on his heavenly virtue.

22. “The dragon exceeds the (proper) limit; — there will be oc-
casion for repentance:’— the time is come to an end, and so also is
his opportunity.

23. Undivided lines appear in all these representations of the
great and originating power denoted by Chien: —and (from what
follows in the Yao) we see the model (of action) afforded by heaven.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter IV, paragraphs 17-23, goes over the same ground for a third
time, treating the various paragraphs chiefly from the standpoint of time.
424 Leeeer’s AppenpixeEs III-VIj

Paragraph 17 tells us that time and circumstances are essential, as well
as inward power, to successful development and demonstration. In para.
graph 18, the words of the Yao about meeting with the great man are not
quoted, but they prompted the latter half of it.

Paragraph 19. Compare the language on paragraph 6, towards the end.
¥ Paragraph 20. The subject passes here from the lower trigram and
enters into the upper. We are told not to lay stress on ‘the method of Ch’ien,
In paragraph 21 we have the sage upon the throne. Time and opportunity
are both in progress in 19; here in 22, they are both passed, have reached
their extremity or end.

Paragraph 23:—see on paragraph 16. ‘The model of heaven,’ says Wu
Ch’eng, ‘is the due blending of the strong and active with the weak and
passive, the regulation of movement in accordance with the highest reason,
so that there shall be neither excess nor deficiency.’

Chapter V. 24. The ‘greatness’ and ‘originating’ represented by
Ch’ien refer to it as (the symbol of) what gives their beginning (to
all things), and (also) secures their growth and development.

25. “The advantageousness and the correctness and firmness’
refer to its nature and feelings (as seen in all the resulting things).

26. Chien, (thus) originating, is able with its admirable benefits
to benefit all under the sky. We are not told how its benefits are
conferred; but how great is (its operation)!

27. How great is (what is emblemed by) Ch’ien! — strong, vigor-
ous, undeflected, correct, and (in all these qualities) pure, unmixed,
exquisite!

28. The six lines, as explained (by the duke of Chow), bring
forth and display (its meaning), and everything about it is (thus)
indirectly exhibited.

29. (The great man) at the proper time drives with these six
dragons through the sky. The clouds move, and the rain is dis-
tributed; all under heaven enjoys repose.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter V, paragraphs 24-29. The author here, leaving the treatise on
the symbolism of the Yao, turns to that on the [Judgments], or expositions
of King Wen, and amplifies it, not quoting from it, however, so fully and
exactly, as he has done in the previous chapters from the Yao.

Paragraphs 24 and 25 are based on the statement of the significance of
the [Judgments] under Ch’ien, and not on the treatise on the symbolism.
The originating power cannot be separated from that of penetration and
development. The latter issues from the former as the summer follows on
the spring, according to an iNustration of Chu Hsi. ‘The advantageousness’
ON THE FIrRsT AND SECOND HEXAGRAMS 425

and ‘firm correctness,” he compares also to the autumn and winter, saying
that the Ch’ien power in its essence, as it is in itself, is best described by
these two latter characteristics, while the two former describe it in its oper-
ation. It is thus that he tries to give his readers an idea of what he under-
stood by ‘nature and feelings’ in 25. But this chapter treats of the Chien
power in nature rather than in humanity. Confining our view to the power
so operating, we cannot say that the description of it in 26 and 27 is mag-
niloquent or hyperbolical.

Paragraph 28 returns to the explanations of the lines of the hexagram by
the duke of Chou, which exhibit the power in different positions and
relations, bringing out all its significance; and then 29 confines us to the
fifth line, in which we have its ideal. The spheres of nature and of men
seem to be in the view of the author, and therefore I introduce ‘the great
man,’ as the subject, after the example of the best critics, Like the clouds
and the rain to the thirsty earth, so is the rule of the sage to expectant
humanity.

Chapter VI. 30. In the superior man his conduct is (the fruit of)
his perfected virtue, which might be seen therefore in his daily
course; but the force of that phrase, “lying hid,’ requires him to
keep retired, and not yet show himself, nor proceed to the full
development of his course. While this is the case, the superior
man (knows that) it is not the time for active doing.

31. The superior man learns and accumulates the results of his
learning; puts questions, and discriminates among those results;
dwells magnanimously and unambitiously in what he has attained
to; and carries it into practice with benevolence. What the 7 says,
‘The dragon appears in the field: —it will be advantageous to
meet with the great man,” has reference to the virtuous qualities
of a ruler (as thus described).

32. In the third line there is a twofold (symbol of) strength, but
(the position) is not central. (Its occupant) is not in heaven above,
nor.is he in the field beneath. Therefore there must be active
vigilance and cautious apprehension as the time requires; and
though (the position be) perilous, there will be no mistake.

33. In the fourth line there is (the symbol of) strength, but (the
position) is not central. (Its occupant) is not in heaven above, nor
1s he in the field beneath, nor is he in the place of man intermediate.
Hence he is in perplexity; and being so, he has.doubts about what
should be his movements, and so will give no occasion for blame.

34. The great man is he who is in harmony, in his attributes,
with heaven and earth; in his brightness, with the sun and moon;
in his orderly procedure, with the four seasons; and in his relation
426 LEGGE’s ApPENDIXES T1I-VII

to what is fortunate and what is calamitous, in harmony with the
spirit-like operations (of Providence). He may precede Heaven,
and Heaven will not act in opposition to him; he may follow
Heaven, but will act (only) as Heaven at the time would do. If
Hegven will not act in opposition to him, how much less will men!
how much less will the spirit-like operation (of Providence)!

35. The force of that phrase — ‘exceeding the proper limits’ —
indicates the knowing to advance but not to retire; to maintain but
not to let perish; to get but not to lose.

36. He only is the sage who knows to advance and to retire, to
maintain and to let perish; and that without ever acting incor-
rectly. Yes, he only is the sage!

LEGGE’'S NOTES

Chapter VI, paragraphs 30-36. The author leaving the {Judgments],
turns again to the treatise on the symbolism of the Yao, his main object
being to show how reasonable are the decisions and lessons of the duke of
Chou.

The subject of paragraph 30 has the virtue; but his position in the lowest
place shows that his time is not yet come.

In paragraph 31 we have the superior man developing, by means of the
processes described, into ‘the great man,” with the attributes of a ruler, the
appearance of whom is a blessing to men.

The twofold symbol of strength in paragraph 32 is the yang or undi-
vided line in the third place (odd) proper to it. There will be no mistake,
because the subject of the line, in the exercise of his caution, will abstain
from any forward movement.

According to paragraph 63 of last Appendix, Section ii, both the third
and fourth lines in the hexagram belong to man, and are intermediate be-
tween those of heaven and those of earth. K'ung Ying-ta, to get over the
difficulty in what is said on the fourth line, says that, as a matter of fact
and locally, man is nearer earth than heaven, and is aptly represented
therefore by the third line and not by the fourth; —I prefer to point out
the inconsistency, and leave it. The subject of this fourth line will move
very cautiously, and so escape blame.

The eulogium of ‘the great man’ in paragraph 34 cannot fail to recall to
the classical scholar the thirty-first and other chapters of ‘the Doctrine of
the Mean,’ where the sage is described as “The Equal of Heaven.’ In one sen-
tence here he is spoken of as sometimes taking precedence of Heaven,
which then does not act in opposition to him! I do not know of any state-
ment about the sage, coming without doubt from Confucius, that is so
extravagant as this. It is difficult—in fact impossible —to say from the /
itself, what we are to understand by the kuei shen, which I have translated
here by ‘the spirit-like operations (of Providence)” The compound de-
nomination does not often occur in the book. In Appendix III {“The Great
ON THE FIRST AND SECOND HEXAGRAMS 427

Treatise”], Section i, 21, Aue is the anima and shen the animus; and in para-
graph 50, I have translated the terms by ‘the contracting and expanding
operations.’ In [the Commentary for hexagrams 15 and 55], the name is
used as in the present text. That second instance and this paragraph were
evidently constructed, the one on the model of the other. I think it likely
that the breath or air, ch’2, became the name with the earliest Chinese for
their first concept of spirit; then the breath inspired or inhaled was called
kuei, and became the name for the grosser part of the spirit, returning
to the earth; and shen, the breath exhaled or expired, the name for the
subtler and intellectual spirit, ascending to the state of activity and en-
joyment. The explanations of the terms in the R Ya and other diction-
aries seem to justify this view. The combination kuei shen is sometimes
best translated by ‘spiritual beings.’ The school of the Sung philosophy
understand by it—the contracting and expanding of the primary matter, or
that matter conceived of in two forms or with two opposite qualities.
Ch’eng-tzu says here that ‘Heaven and earth are another name for tao,
and kuei shen another name for “the vestiges of making and transformation,”
and that the sage being in harmony with the tao or practical reason of the
universe, how can men or the kuei shen be contrary to him?’ Whatever be
thought of the Sung speculations and theories, I think that a translator
ought to give an indication of the primary meaning of the name kuei shen.

Paragraphs 35 and 36 suggest the description of Confucius by Mencius,
V, ii, 1, 5, as the one among the sages who was most governed by the con-
sideration of time, doing continually what the circumstances of the time
required.

Section IT. K’ un.

Chapter I. 1. (What is indicated by) K’un is most gentle and
weak, but, when put in motion, is hard and strong; it is most still,
but is able to give every definite form.

2. ‘By following, it obtains its (proper) lord, and pursues its
regular (course).

3. It contains all things in itself, and its transforming (power) is
glorious.

4. Yes, what docility. marks the way of K’un! It receives the in-
fluences of heaven, and acts at the proper time.

Chapter II. 5. The family that accumulates goodness is sure to
have superabundant happiness, and the family.that accumulates
evil is sure to have superabundant misery. The murder of a ruler
by his minister, or of his father by a son, is not the result of the
events of one morning or one evening. The causes of it have grad-
ually accumulated, —through the absence of early discrimination.
428 LecGe’s AppENDiIXES [1I-VII]

The words of the /, ‘He treads on the hoar-frost; the strong ice
will come (by and by), show the natural (issue and growth of
things). .

6. ‘Straight’ indicates the correctness (of the internal principle),
and sgpare the righteousness (of the external act). The superior
man, {thus represented), by his self-reverence maintains the in-
ward (correctness), and in righteousness adjusts his external acts.
His reverence and righteousness being (thus) established, his
virtues are not solitary instances or of a single class. ‘Straight,
square, and great, working his operations, without repeated ef-
forts, in every respect advantageous: — this shows how (such a one)
has no doubts as to what he does.

7. Although (the subject of) this divided line has excellent qual-
ities, he (does not display them, but) keeps them under restraint.
‘If he engage with them in the service of the king, and be success-
ful, he will not claim that success for himself; — this is the way of
the earth, of a wife, of a minister. The way of the earth is—‘not to
claim the merit of achievement,’ but on behalf (of heaven) to bring
things to their proper issue.

8. Through the changes and transformations produced by
heaven and earth, plants and trees grow luxuriantly. If (the re-
ciprocal influence of) heaven and earth were shut up and restrained,
we should have (a state that might suggest to us the case of men
of virtue and ability lying in obscurity. The words of the 7, ‘A
sack tied up: —there will be no ground for blame or for praise,
are in reality a lesson of caution.

9. The superior man (emblemed here) by the ‘yellow’ and cor-
rect (colour), is possessed of comprehension and discrimination.
He occupies the correct position (of supremacy), but (that emblem)
is on (the lower part of) his person. His excellence is in the centre
(of his being), but it diffuses a complacency over his four limbs,
and is manifested in his (conduct of) affairs: — this is the perfection
of excellence.

10. (The subject of) the yin (or divided line) thinking himself
equal to the (subject of the) yang, or undivided line, there is sure
to be ‘a contest” As if indignant at there being no acknowledg-
ment of the (superiority of the subject of the) yang line, (the text)
uses the term ‘dragons.’ But still the (subject of neither line) can
leave his class, and hence we have ‘the blood’ mentioned. The
mention of that as being (both) ‘azure and yellow’ indicates the
mixture of heaven and earth. Heaven's (colour) is azure and earth’s
is yellow.
429

LEGGE’S NOTES

The hexagram K'un is dealt with in Section ii, and much more briefly
than Ch’ien in Section i. Much less distinct, moreover, is the attempt in
it to show how the attributes of the hexagram are to be understood of the
principles of human nature. The most important portion of the Section,
perhaps, is paragraph 5, the first of chapter II, and I have spoken of it in
the Introduction.
APPENDIX V

Treatise of Remarks on the Trigrams
¥

Chapter L. 1. Anciently, when the sages made the /, in order to
give mysterious assistance to the spiritual Intelligences, they pro-
duced (the rules for the use of) the divining plant.

2. The number 3 was assigned to heaven, 2 to earth, and from
these came the (other) numbers.

3. They contemplated the changes in the divided and undivided
lines (by the process of manipulating the stalks), and formed the
trigrams; from the movements that took place in the strong and
weak lines, they produced (their teaching about) the separate lines.
There ensued a harmonious conformity to the course (of duty) and
to virtue, with a discrimination of what was right (in each partic-
ular case). They (thus) made an exhaustive discrimination of what
was right, and effected the complete development of (every) nature,
till they arrived (in the /) at what was appointed for it (by Heaven).

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter I, paragraphs 1-3, treats of the rise of the scheme of the / from
the wonderful qualities of the divining plant, the use of certain numbers,
and the formation of the lineal figures.

P. Regis translates paragraph 1 by —“The ancient (sages), the most ex-
cellent men, were the authors of the / Ching, in making which they were
assisted by an intelligent spirit, who for their help produced the plant
called Shih.’ ’

But the text will not admit of this version, nor have I found the view
given in it in any Chinese writer. It is difficult to make up one’s mind
whether to translate—‘the sage,’ or ‘the sages.” K'ung Ying-ta contends
that the writer had Fu-hsi and him alone in his mind. To me it seems other-
wise. Fu-hsi, if we accept the testimony of universal Chinese consent,
madesthe eight trigrams; but he did not make the /, which, by the same
consent, was the production of King Wen and his son.

The text would seem to say that the sages ‘produced’ the plant, but this
is so extravagant that the view indicated in my supplementary clause ap-
pears in all the best commentators. So understood, the / may be said to
‘give mysterious assistance to the spiritual Intelligences,’ or, if we take
that name as singular (according to the analogy of chapter 6), to the Divine
Being in affording a revelation of His will, as in paragraph 3. We may well
say that it is a pity the revelation should be so enigmatical; but the author,
it must be remembered, is writing from his own standpoint. Wen and his
son, as I have endeavoured to show in the Introduction, merely wished to

convey, under the style and veil of divination, their moral and political
lessons.
434 LecGE’s AprENDIXES [II-VI]

gin again there is nothing more fully adapted than Ken. Thus
water and fire contribute together to the one object; thunder and
wind do not act contrary to each other; mountains and collections
of water interchange their influences. It is in this way, that they
are able to change and transform, and to give completion to all
things.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VI is the sequel of the preceding. There ought to have been
some mention of Shen or ‘Spirit’ in chapter 5. It is the first character in
this chapter, and the two characters that follow show that it is here re-
sumed for the purpose of being explained. As it does not occur in chapter 5,
we must suppose that the author of it here brings forward and explains the
idea of it that was in his mind. Many of the commentators recognise this, —
e.g. Liang Yin, as quoted in the Introduction.

Two other peculiarities in the style of the chapter are pointed out and
explained (after a fashion) by Tsui Ching (earlier, probably, than the Sung
dynasty): — “The action of six of the trigrams is described, but no mention
is made of Ch'ien or K’un. But heaven and earth do nothing, and yet do
everything; hence they are able to perfect the spirit-like subtilty of the
action of thunder, wind, and the other things. (Moreover), we have the
trigram Ken mentioned, the only one mentioned by its name, instead of our
reading “mountains.” The reason is, that the putting in motion, the scatter-
ing, the parching, and the moistening, are all the palpable effects of thunder,
wind, fire, and water. But what is ascribed to Ken, the ending and the
recommencing all things, is not so evident of mountains. On this account
the name of the trigram is given, while the things in nature represented
by the trigrams are given in those other cases. The style suitable in each
case is employed.’ :

Chapter VII 11. Chien is (the symbol of) strength; K'un, of
docility; Chen, of stimulus to movement; Sun, of penetration;
K’an, of what is precipitous and perilous; Li, of what is bright and
what is catching; Ken, of stoppage or arrest; and Tui, of pleasure
and satisfaction.

LEGGE’S NOTES

Chapter VII mentions the attributes, called also the ‘virtues,’ of the
different trigrams. It is not easy to account for the qualities — ‘their nature
and feelings’ —ascribed to them. K'ung Ying-ta says:—‘Ch’ien is repre-
sented by heaven, which revolves without ceasing, and so it is the symbol
of strength; K'un by the earth, which receives docilely the action of heaven,
and so it is the symbol of docility; Chen by thunder, which/xcites and
moves all things, and so it is the symbol of what produces movement; Sun
by wind, which enters everywhere, and so it is the symbol of penetration;
®

More MENTOR Books of Interest

a

THE WAY OF LIFE: TAO TE CHING by Lao Tzu. A new
anslation by R. B. Blakney of a masterpiece of ancient
hinese wisdom. (#MW1459—%1.50)

A TREASURY OF ASIAN LITERATURE, John D. Yohan-
nan, editor. A collection of Asian classics spanning 2500
years and encompassing China, India, Arabia, Iran, and
Japan. (#MJ1454—%1.95)

THE CULTURAL ECOLOGY OF CHINESE CIVILIZATION:
Peasants and Elites in the Last of the Agrarian States
by Leon E. Stover. A brilliant and pioneering dissection
of the Chinese past, this book explains the immense
complexities and dramatic changes of China yesterday
and today. (#MJ1192—%1.95)

ASIA IN THE MODERN WORLD, Helen Matthew, editor.
Prominent authorities study the people, culture, and
political history of Asia and provide the background
needed to understand its decisive role in the shaping of
world events today. Illustrated. (#MY1215—$1.25)

THE NATURE OF THE NON-WESTERN WORLD by Vera
Micheles Dean. A timely, penetrating look into the an-
cient traditions and modern ideas by which half the
world’s people live. ‘Everything she writes in her lucid
and persuasive style bears the stamp of a liberal and
courageous mind.””—New York Herald Tribune.
(#MW1224—$1.50)

THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY, INC,
P.O. Box 999, Bergenfield, New Jersey 07621

Please send me the MENTOR BOOKS | have checked above. | am
enclosing$_—. (check or money order-—no currency
or C.0.D.'s). Please include the list price plus 25¢ a copy to cover
handling and mailing costs. (Prices and numbers are subject to
change without notice.)

Name. - —.

Address.

City.

 

State. Zip Code_
Allow at least 3 weeks for delivery
D ®

SIGNET and MENTOR Mystic Titles and the Occult

0

THE COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK OF DIVINATION
AND PROPHECY by Walter B. Gibson & Litzka R. Gibson.
Tarot cards, i ching, hand of fate, palmistry, playing-
card forecasting, and many other methods of prophesy-
ing your future have been gathered in one volume, to-
gether with explanatory charts and diagrams and a
glossary of divination, to make foretelling the future
easier. (#E6525—%2.25)

PASSPORT TO THE SUPERNATURAL by Bernhardt J.
Hurwood. Travel through time and space to the most
frightening limits of your imagination with these fasci-
nating tales of the occult and the supernatural from
around the globe. (#ME1281—%1.75)

MASTERING THE TAROT: Basic Lessons in an An-
cient, Mystic Art by Eden Gray. Unlock the secrets
of the tarot. Learn to understand their mysterious
and beautiful symbols. Fully illustrated.
(#W6131—%1.50)

THE TAROT REVEALED: A Modern Guide to Reading
The Tarot Cards by Eden Gray. A fascinating and
authoritative introduction to the ancient art of the Tarot
cards. Special Feature: A special order blank is in the
book so that you can order a Rider-Waite Tarot Deck.
(#E7205—%$1.75)

THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY, INC,
P.O. Box 999, Bergenfield, New Jersey 07621

Please send me the SIGNET and MENTOR BOOKS | have checked
above. l am enclosing $—___ _________ (check or money order—no
currency or C.0.D.'s). Please include the list price plus 25¢ a copy to
cover handling and mailing costs. (Prices and numbers are subject
to change without notice.)

Name,

 

Address

City.

 

State. Zip Code
Allow at least 3 weeks for delivery

 
D

Other SIGNET Titles of Related Interest

 

[1 DIARY OF A WITCH by Sybil Leek. Dame Sybil Leek, the
most famous white witch in the world, tells of her line-
age, psychic experiences, witchcraft apprenticeship, and
finally her initiation as a full-fledged witch in this fasci-
nating journal. (#0Q5648—95¢)

[J ADVENTURES INTO THE PSYCHIC by Jess Stearn. A
fully documented account of every major aspect of the
occult field today, it takes the reader through a series
of psychic experiences, ranging from ESF, seances, and
telepathic crime detection. (#Y4512—%1.25)

[J THE SUPERNATURAL by Douglas Hill and Pat Williams.
Two knowledgeable authorities, both of them journal-
ists, lead an excursion into the realms of the unknown,
presenting astonishing facts about witches and vam-
pires, ghosts and poltergeists, grotesque cults and
orgiastic rituals. (#W6174—%$1.50)

[1 ASTROLOGY: The Space-Age Science by Joseph F.
Goodavage. A well-documented case for the science of
astrology, the study of how the cosmic power of the
stars affects man’s life. (#Y6780—%1.25)

THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY, INC.,
P.O. Box 999, Bergenfield, New Jersey 07621

Piease send me the SIGNET BOOKS 1 have checked above. | am
enclosing. (check or money order—no currency
or C.0.D.'s). Please include the list price plus 25¢ a copy to cover
handling and mailing costs. (Prices and numbers are subject to
change without notice.)

 

Name.

Address

 

City. State. ZipCode.
Allow at least 3 weeks for delivery

 
 

