THE JADE EMPEROR'S MIND SEAL CLASSIC 
-  A  Taoist  Guide  to Health, Longevity and Immortality  -

The Jade Emperor's 

MIND  SEAL  CLASSIC 

- A Taoist Guide to Health, Longevity and Immortality  -
Translation  and  Commentary  by  Stuart Alve  Olson 

The Jade Emperor's Mind Seal Classic 

Copyright 

1992 by Stuart Alve Olson 

All rights reserved. 

Printed in the United States of America 

No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any  manner whatsoever 
without written permission except in the case of brief quotations embodied in 
critical articles or reviews. 
For information address: 

Dragon Door Publications 

P.O.  Box 4381 

St.  Paul, MN 55104, USA 

First Edition, February 1993 
Second Printing, May 1993 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 92-73714 

ISBN 0-938045-10-5 

Printed on recycled paper 

Dedicated  to  the  memory  of  Liang  Shu-wen 

Acknowledgements 

Much appreciation goes to Master T.T.  Liang for first 

giving  me his copy of the Jade  Emperor's Mind Seal  Classic, 
for helping me initially with some of the more difficult con-
cepts expressed in the work and for his contribution  of the 
cover calligraphy.  But mostly I wish to thank him for his 
years of instruction, guidance and friendship, which has 
made life itself more enjoyable.  He is truly a living immortal. 

To  Professor Wu Yi, who first taught me about Lao 

Tzu's  thought during my residency at the  City of Ten-
Thousands  Buddhas,  my deepest gratitude for all his patient 
tutoring. 

Without question I  must thank all the  monks at the 

City of Ten-Thousand  Buddhas.  They changed  the  course  of 
my life and by pure example revealed to me the  meaning of 
self-cultivation. To them I  bow in deep respect. 

To my wife, Loa Lian-hwa, for patiently typing out the 
first  draft of this work and for her constant insistence that I 
finish this project before daring to enter my files of numer-
ous other unfinished materials. To her I yield and say thank 
you. 

To  John  Du  Cane, who again  through his editing allows 

me to say what I  mean, so that I  may mean what I say. No 
easy task. 

Again,  many thanks to the  "book  wizard"  Randy 

Scholes for his book and cover design and to Mike  Urseth 
for getting it all into and out of the computer the way it is 
supposed  to  be. 

To The  Minneapolis  Institute  of Art and The John R. 
Van Derlip Fund for permission to use the photographs for 
the cover art and frontispiece. 

Finally, I wish to acknowledge the indispensable help 

given so  generously during the  many phases of this book by 
Jay and Page  Cowles, Joanne Von  Blon,  Harry Cunliffe, 
Richard Peterson, Larry Hawkins, Lara Puffer, Fred Marych 
and, possibly, by the Jade Emperor himself. 

THE  JADE  EMPEROR'S 
MIND  SEAL  CLASSIC 

Introduction 

13 

Historical  Background 

17 

The Jade Emperor's Mind Seal Classic 

41 

Commentary 

45 

The  Three  Treasures of Immortality 

89 

Chinese  Phonetic Text, for Recitation 

108 

Translator's Afterword 

111 

The  Jade  Emperor seated in his court passing judgements. 

Introduction 

To my knowledge this is the first English translation of this 
popular Taoist text. Admittedly, when I  first read through 
the text, I was not all that enthusiastic about translating it.  It 
appeared to  be  no  more  than a jumbled collection  of Taoist 
aphorisms, disjointed and unclear in purpose.  For one reason 
or another I kept  finding  myself returning to it as a reference 
while working on other Taoist works.  Eventually I  realized 
why Taoist  monks,  especially of the  Chuan  Chen  (Complete 
Reality)  and Lung Men (Dragon  Door)  sects of the White 
Cloud Monastery, in Beijing, found it so valuable in their 
daily rituals and festival ceremonies. The text is, without 
question,  a very concise  overview of what each Taoist aspires 
to  spiritually. 

Hopefully, as readers, you will come to share my belief 

in the importance of this text.  I have, with limited knowl-
edge, attempted to make clear the entire text, from the title 
to the passages. The real difficulty in doing this however is 
that the verses of the text are in the  framework of mystical 
experience. The language of the mystic is very difficult to 
adapt into  everyday language,  for the very nature  of mystical 
experience is beyond normal mundane experiences and lan-
guage. Therefore, in order to further clarify the text I have 
added a work from the Lung Men 
Immortality,  a  discourse with various verses  from  accom-
plished  tao shih (Taoist masters) of the past, which reveals a 
great deal  about Taoist thought,  especially in connection 
with  this text. 

sect,  Three Treasures of 

The  Chinese Phonetic  Text,  for Recitation has  also  been 

14 
provided.  The original use of this text was for recitation.  I 
felt obliged to  make  this aspect of it available. 

Lastly I've included a Translator's Afterword, which is a 

brief account of my experience with meditation and a sum-
mary  of both  the  obstacles  and  impasses  of practice. 

The underlying message of this classic is that within 

each of us dwells the medicine to cure the affliction of mor-
tality. We possess the seeds of primal forces, which if cultivat-
ed properly will confer great spiritual benefits.  The "open 
secret"  of nourishing these seeds is none other than our own 
tranquility -  to let the dust settle so that we may see with 
utmost clarity these  seeds  of immortality. 

This text is extremely important to our modern day 

society, if not for the achievement of immortality, a most dif-
ficult  concept for many Westerners, then certainly for the 
achievement of health,  longevity and  spiritual  insight. With 
all the stresses and illnesses afflicting our society, the experi-
ence  of tranquility within  ourselves could  be  the greatest 
medicine of all. We need not accept the lofty Taoist goal of 
immortality to  understand  and seek out these  other jewels 
along the way. 

For those not deeply familiar with Taoist thought it is 
essential to understand that it is not religious, in the Judeo-
Christian sense  of the word.  Both in its philosophical  origins 
and in its form as an organized religious system, Taoism is 
devoid  of dogmatism.  The  I Ching (Book  of Changes)  says, 
"All things on earth are first an archetype in heaven.” 
Taoism is an expression of this statement, adopting the ways 
of heaven as an example for living on this earth.  Gods,  to the 
daily life of Taoists, have about as much importance as kan-
garoos do to people living in New York.  They accept their 
existence, but not their relevancy.  To the Taoist, Gods are 
mythical symbols, engaged in to draw out the spiritual, heav-

15 

enly like qualities within us. Taoism sees no conflict in main-
taining an outer shell that has a religious appearance, while 
holding to  the  inner belief that all things  are  returnable  to 
the  source, Tao. 

In conclusion, I  hope this work provides something of 
use to the reader. This work is mostly due to my fortunate 
fate  of having studied  and  met with  men who justly deserve 
the title of "immortal". At best I serve as a tiny mirror 
reflecting just a bit of their vast wisdom  light. 

Translator 
Autumn,  1992 

Historical  Background 

This  brief text was  probably composed  sometime  during the 
Sung dynasty,  under the  reign  of Emperor  Hui Tsung, who 
had originally deified the Jade  Emperor as  Lord  On High 
and erected temples in his honor. There are two extant texts 
of this classic,  and  other various texts which use the  term 
Mind Seal within the  titles.  But it is two texts, one arranged 
by Lu Szu-hsing and a later version by Chio  Chen Tzu, 
which prove the  most valuable.  Both have  commentaries 
attached to them.  The earlier of the two is the Ming dynasty 
text,  titled,  Tu Huang Hsin  Tin Miao  Ching  (The  Jade 
Emperor's Profound Mind-Seal Classic), which has a com-
mentary by Lu Szu-hsing. 

Lu Szu-hsing states in his commentary that the  most 
important verse of the entire text is, keep to  non-being  yet 
hold onto being, which is taken directly from the  Tao Te 
Ching(Classic  on the Way and Virtue). An adept's empirical 
understanding of the  meaning in this verse will help him 
reverse  the  light of the yuan shen (primal spirit).  This in  turn 
will create a  "quickening  of the  ch'i,  and enable the achieve-
ment of self-illumination.  The verse points directly to  the 
experience of creating a spiritual embryo  -  a being, yet non-
being.  More on this later. 

Within Lu Szu-hsing's version of this classic are append-

ed verses which do not appear in other compilations, sug-
gesting that they are most likely his own inventions.  Chio 
Chen Tzu, of the  Ching dynasty, omitted these verses in his 
re-formation of the text, which is presently the accepted ver-
sion  of the  classic.  For sake  of clarity I  have placed Lu's 

18 
appended verses  at the  end of the  English  translation,  thus 
restoring his original  twenty-four sections. 

Lu Szu-hsing divided the text into twenty-four separate 

verses  (Chio  Chen Tzu discarded this arrangement), and 
provided select discourses  on nourishing the  ching and  ch’i, 
inner alchemy, congealing the elixir and releasing the spirit 
embryo.  In his introduction to the text he provides many 
related quotations  from not only Taoist,  but Buddhist and 
Confucianist sources. The entire work is presented in much 
the same manner as  The Secret of the Golden Flower (T'ai I 
Chin  Hua Tsung  Chih),  while retaining a greater sense and 
flavor  of Taoism and being much less eclectic.  It can also be 
a bit confusing to the non-initiate.  Chio  Chen Tzu did well 
to simplify the text and commentary.  The work presented 
here lies somewhere in the middle of these two, while lean-
ing towards  the  Chio  Chen Tzu version. 

There is no clear evidence as to who the original author 

of this text truly is.  On the one hand this is really not so 
important.  On  the  other hand  the  terminology used 
throughout the text is quite important, as many of the ideas 
are derived either directly from the  Tao Te Ching, or from 
the  Chuang  Tzu and  Pao P'o Tzu. 

To  determine  the  period  of original  authorship would 
help  clarify whether or not the  cult of the  Jade  Emperor was 
an integral part of early folk religion, portions  of which 
Taoism adapted to its  beliefs, or whether it was an invention 
of the  first  organizer of popular Taoist religion,  Chang Tao-
ling  (born  34 A.D., Later Han dynasty.  He is considered to 
have lived  123 years and was the founder of the Heavenly 
Masters  sect). 

Interestingly enough, the main controversy which over-

shadows  the  cult of the  Jade  Emperor has nothing to  do 
with the  legitimacy of his title  Lord  On  High.  Even 

Chang Tao-ling 

20 
Buddhists and Confucians recognize his lofty position. The 
real controversy lies in the question as to  why he was origi-
nally introduced into  the  Taoist pantheon. 

Taoism is without question the  most paradoxical  of 
teachings. There is such a vast array of gods, immortals, 
deities  and spirits that no one text has ever attempted to 
record them, not even the  official documents of Taoism, the 
tao tsang. On the  other hand, to  be Taoist requires no belief 
in a Supreme  Being or any particular heavenly deity. All 
celestial inhabitants may be  regarded or disregarded at your 
discretion. The Taoist would look upon such beings as we 
might view extraterrestrial  beings,  having no real  importance 
concerning our life. For the Taoist,  God as some supreme 
attendant, as in the Christian sense, would be a rather amus-
ing, if not totally erroneous belief. Supreme Beings, in the 
main, would be more a symbol or mythic image, represent-
ing one  or another spiritual aspect within yourself, rather 
than  something  external. 

The popular belief is that the Taoists needed both pub-

lic and imperial patronage and so introduced the Jade 
Emperor as  both an object of veneration and meditation, not 
unlike the  Buddhist Pure  Land practices  surrounding 
Amitabha  Buddha  (Buddha  of Infinite  Light)  and  Kuan 
Shih  Yin  Bodhisattva (Contemplator of the World's  Cries). 
To a lesser degree it gave them something to compete with 
against all the popular Confucian rites and ceremonies. 

Interestingly,  the  Buddhists claim that the Jade 

Emperor is now waiting in the Tusita Heaven with Maitreya 
Bodhisattva  (the  next or future  Buddha to  enter our world), 
studying the  Buddhadharma.  Because  of his inconceivable 
and limitless past merits, the Jade Emperor is now serving as 
Supreme  God until his introduction as a Bodhisattva into 
this realm  of form  and desire  to teach joy, the dharma of 

21 

Maitreya.  But then the Buddhists usually took the stance 
that all  accomplished Taoist immortals, sages and divine 
beings were actually transformation bodies of Buddha's dis-
ciples  and/or a particular transformation  of a Bodhisattva. 
The best example is Lao Tzu who is thought to be none 
other than  Mahakasyapa,  the  first patriarch  of Ch'an 
Buddhism  (Zen).  It was he who was first enlightened by the 
wordless teaching after seeing Buddha twirl a flower in his 
hand, and he is now deep in samadhi within the  Chicken 
Foot Mountains  awaiting Maitreya's entrance  into  this 
realm. 

There is an on-going dispute that religious Taoism was 
nothing more than a competitive ploy, created to steal away 
Buddhist patrons and regain imperial favor, thus making 
them the more powerful force in spiritual circles. 

Some of these charges may indeed be true, but it is 
quite  difficult to generalize this and consider that Taoism 
was so well organized during this period that an orchestrated 
coup took place.  It appears to  be  more  a matter of various 
Taoist representatives acting independently.  Likewise,  many 
Taoist figures  and communities probably either had no 
knowledge  of these  matters or if they did were  more  likely 
unconcerned, preferring their solitude and wishing to avoid 
any political  involvement. 

Over time Taoism did come  to borrow a great deal 

from  both the  Pure  Land  and Secret Sect of Buddhism,  but 
Ch'an Buddhism  borrowed in a similar fashion from the 
Complete Reality (chuan chen) sect of Taoism.  It is very 
clear too  that Taoism  also  improved  itself philosophically 
through  the prajna teachings of Buddhism.  Taoism  original-
ly only spoke  of things which were  associated with the nature 
of voidness (sunyata in Buddhism).  In the end both teach-
ings benefited from each other. An old Chinese saying reads, 

Lao  Chun  (Lao  Tzu) 

"To tell the difference between a Buddhist and a Taoist, is 
like trying to point out the differences between the feathers 
of one  Mandarin duck and  another".  The semantics differed, 
but practices were  mostly identical. 

23 

Explanation  of the  Terms  within  the  Title 

Yu Huang (The Jade Emperor) 

The  most important question  concerning the  origin  of this 
text is whether or not the text existed before the populariza-
tion and deification of the Jade Emperor.  His name is only 
mentioned in  the title of the text, not in the text itself. 
Therefore it is quite possible that the text did exist before 
the Sung dynasty and that sometime during or after his deifi-
cation under the  Emperor Hui Tsung his name was attached 
to  the  title  of the  text. 

The sixth line  of the  text refers to the  Shang Ti. This 
reference is thought is to be to the Jade Emperor.  But it 
must be  remembered that the term  "Shang  Ti"  existed long 
before the introduction of the name Jade  Emperor.  Lao Tzu 
was also given the honorific title of Shang Ti, as were others 
in the Taoist mystical pantheon.  Also,  if taken in the plural 
sense it might mean the Three Pure Ones (san  ching)  the 
Taoist  trinity). 

The term Shang Ti was first used in China's antiquity as 

a title for the head of a clan.  Only later was it applied to 
supreme  beings.  In connection with the Jade  Emperor 
Shang Ti means,  "the Lord on  High"  or "Sovereign of 
Heaven".  He is the supreme authority of all other gods and 
deities.  Earthly emperors were considered his sons,  "Son of 
Heaven". The Shang Ti is a summation of all the various 

The Jade Emperor  granting  an  official post for a  new immortal. 

25 

Taoist hierarchies  of gods. When  one 
of them reaches a certain level of spiri-
tual perfection and merit and the  Jade 
Emperor decides to  abdicate,  then this 
god will replace him. There is also 
another  group  of mythic  supreme 
beings called the Jade Rulers, consist-
ing of Fu  Hsi,  Shen  Nung and  Huang 
Ti.  However, these have no relation to 
the  Jade  Emperor in either lineage  or 
in  the  history of his creation. 

In the epic myth, Journey to the 

West, there are numerous references to 
the Jade  Emperor and his  Palace of 
Miraculous Mists. This novel of 

Talisman  of the 
Jade  Emperor 
Chinese philosophical folklore, probably more than any 
other work in  Chinese  literature, popularized  belief in  the 
Jade Emperor, who with his retinue  -  a vast array of gods, 
immortals and spiritual beings - fights the evil spirits and 
forces within the heavenly and earthly realms. The references 
made to the Jade  Emperor are too numerous to list here, as 
are  the  descriptions of his heavenly abode.  Even though this 
celestial prime minister is not always regarded kindly by this 
primarily Buddhist novel, Journey to the  West is well worth 
reading for anyone interested in Buddhism, Taoism or 
Chinese mythic culture in general. The novel, written by Wu 
Cheng'en  (Ming dynasty), is on the one hand an anthology 
of Chinese  folklore  and  a catalog of sorts of the various  and 
numerous spiritual beings; from another perspective, it is a 
metaphor on the progression of spiritual  cultivation  (an inte-
gration of Buddhist, Taoist and Confucian methods). We  all 
indeed carry within  us aspects of either the Monkey King, 
Friar  Sand,Pig,  Horse,  or even  Hsuan Tsang the  monk. 

26 
Indeed it would  be  hard to imagine  that anyone  could 
understand  Chinese  spiritual  thought without having read 
this work thoroughly.  For beyond the  amusing children's 
tale lies both a very profound and mystic message for those 
engaged in spiritual cultivation. 

Taoism is not a teaching about mysticism, it is mysti-

cism. Taoism, as one soon learns through study and practice, 
is paradoxical, at least to the western way of thinking.  There 
is no paradox to the  Chinese  mind.  For the western mind to 
effectively understand and practice Taoism, there must be a 
realization that in reality it holds to no Supreme Being, rec-
ognizing only  Tao, which is the primal spirit (yuan shen) in 
each of us,  as the source of all things, an impersonal creative 
force. The mysticism, the Jade Emperor and all the various 
spiritual beings are in the final view simply symbols, real and 
yet unreal. A true Taoist would have no difficulty in choos-
ing to view the Jade Emperor as the Supreme Lord of 
Heaven, but in the same breath equate this august figure as 
just a symbol of yuan shen. To the Taoist there is no contra-
diction in these two seemingly opposing views  -  one being 
an outer expression of religious practice, and the other, a 
self-empowered,  internal  expression  of spirituality devoid of 
religious  tenets. 

The  underlying doctrine  of Taoism  is that Man  and 

Heaven are  but reflections of each other and are  One, for in 
each human lies both a Heavenly Spirit (hun) and Earthly 
Spirit (p'o). Therefore, to the Taoist there is no problem in 
religious practice. There is a problem when one thinks that 
this is the only means of spiritual enlightenment. The utiliza-
tion  of a personal  God has never been something foreign  to 
Taoism,  but on the same hand it was never something taken 
as a final answer or as a reality. The practice and philosophy 
of The  Yellow  Court Classic (Huang Ting Ching) is evidence 

27 

enough about the acceptance of supreme deities and reli-

gious practice in Taoism.  I've never found much credence in 
the contemporary academic view that there is a separate reli-
gious and philosophical Taoism  -  Taoists hold both views 
without  contradiction. 

In the Chuang Tzu, which is a doctrine of the uncondi-
tioned nature of all  things,  there is a verse that relates to this 
question of God/Creator:  "There  appears to  be  a True  God 
who does interact, yet there is no evidence of his existence" 
To Chuang Tzu, God is suspect. A personal God, who influ-
ences human life, even in the form of the Jade Emperor, is 
totally out of sync with his philosophy. Yet he  admits to the 
appearance  of a True  God.  In  spite  of his  brief acceptance, 
Chuang Tzu focuses his beliefs on Nature (Tao) as creation 
itself, not on a creator in the personal sense. 

Ko  Hung  (author of Pao P'o Tzu), commenting on 

Chuang Tzu's statement about a True  God, denies the  exis-
tence  of a Supreme  God, stating that  "everything creates 
itself through Nature (Tao)". 

Lao Tzu in the  Tao Te Ching, which is a doctrine of the 

unproduced  nature  of all  things,  makes no  distinction 
between  Creator and No-Creator, claiming that  "all  things 
come from  emptiness". 

There  are  Buddhist equivalents of these  two  teachings. 
The  Vajra Prajna Paramita  Sutra  (the  Diamond  Sutra)  con-
tains many of the same messages contained in the  Tao Te 
Ching.  The  Surangama  Sutra addresses many of the same 
issues  addressed in  The  Chuang Tzu.  It was these  teachings, 
along with  the  Platform  Sutra  of the Sixth Patriarch, which 
really influenced Taoism. 

It is now easy to see why Lu Szu-hsing considers the 

verse in the Tao Te Ching, "keep to non-being, yet hold onto 
being" as extremely important and why it has been the main 

28 
paradox of Lao Tzu's philosophy. This verse can be inter-
preted in many ways,  but for the purposes of understanding 
the  perspective  of the Jade  Emperor it might be  interpreted 
as,  "keep to the idea of no supreme being, yet hold onto the 
idea of a supreme being". It is not in keeping with Taoism to 
view anything as absolute, supreme being or not. There is 
obviously an enormous difference between attaching to such 

The Three Pure Ones 

things in  a one-sided  manner and the  acceptance  of both 
sides  of an issue.  Extremist views tend to destroy themselves 
and converge  into  their opposite. 

Ultimately, through Taoism, the ideal is to realize the 

29 

unity of heaven  and  man, hun and  p'o,  yin and yang, exis-
tence and  non-existence,  form and formless, production and 
non-production, conditioned and unconditioned. All  these 

are not  two. Returning to the Source in Taoism is not merely a 
statement on becoming an enlightened being, rather a state-
ment on the actual reality of things. All things are  One.  It is 
only the  illusionary mind  of concepts  and  discriminations 
which envisions them as two. 

Taoist thought is permeated with the  notion that Man 
and Heaven are a unified whole; that the entire universe is 
contained within Man, that they are in essence one  and the 
same.  Again, in the  Huang Ting Ching (The Yellow Court 
Classic)  hundreds  of spirit-gods  are  named  and  assigned  to 
specific parts of the  body,  both internally and externally.  The 
Jade  Emperor's  Court is in essence the  “court of inner 
man”.  Taoism,  seen in this light, is not dogmatic or even 
religious  (at least in the western  meaning of the  term). 
Indeed the term  "religion"  is only a century old in the 
Chinese language,  introduced by Christian missionaries. 
Originally, Buddhist, Taoist and Confucian ideas were simply 
referred to as  "teachings".  The notion of a dogmatic religion 
was entirely foreign to the Chinese until the intervention of 
western beliefs.  So when the Taoist speaks of a Supreme 
God, the language is not the same as when a western 
Christian speaks of Supreme  God. Whereas the  Christian 
speaks of something totally external and distinct from him-
self, the Taoist is speaking of something internal and integral 
to his own being.  Heaven and the Jade Emperor are external 
symbols reflecting his own inner being. 

Spirituality to the Taoist is not religious, but rather a 

practical self-cultivation of three  forces which embody 
Heaven, Earth and Man:  ching  (essence), ch'i (vitality) and 
shen (spirit). The restoration, accumulation and transforma-

30 
tion  of these three inner forces is what constitutes true spiri-
tual  illumination  and immortality. 

The  Jade  Emperor is part of the Taoist trinity, of which 

he is head.  On his right side stands Tao Chun and on his 
left, Lao Tzu. They arc commonly known as "The Three 
Pure  Ones"  (san  ching).  In more practical Taoist terms they 
are but symbols of the true trinity; primal  (yuan) ching, ch’i 
and shen. 

Yu Huang (The Jade Emperor), sometimes called "Jade 

Ruler"  or "Pearly Sovereign" is for the most part identified 
with Brahma of Hinduism, Indra of Buddhism and to a less-
er degree with the  notions  of God Almighty in  Christian  and 
Islamic traditions.  He represents shen (spirit),  t'ien  (heaven), 
Primal  Cause  and present time. 

Tao Chun (Sovereign of the Way), represents ching 

(regenerative force) and is identified with the Pole Star God. 
He  represents jen (man),  the  interaction  of yin and yang and 
time  past. 

Lao  Tzu (Old  Philosopher),  represents ch'i (vital life-
force energy) and is identified by the Taoist doctrine. He 
represents  ti (earth) and future time. 

This particular text refers to these three forces as the 

"supreme medicines”’ being the curative and preventive pre-
scriptions for both human and spiritual ills, as well as the 
compound for the true elixir of immortality. The text is very 
brief,  consisting of only two-hundred characters,  arranged in 
four character couplets, which allowed the Taoist monk easy 
memorization  and  rhythmic  recitation.  The  contents  of the 
text cover a wide range of key verses and ideas crucial  to the 
Taoist cultivator, reading more like a  "crib  sheet"  to keep his 
mind on the essentials  for attaining immortality, of which 
ching, ch'i and shen are the foundation. 

Those unfamiliar with Taoist terminology,  might view 

Lao  Tzu riding the back of a crane to visit the Eight Immortals. 

32 
this text as mere  mystical  "gibberish",  but for the Taoist 
monk it is a tool for mindfulness. Indeed all Taoist practices, 
whether meditation, yogic inner alchemy exercises, visualiza-
tions,  recitation of mantras  or sacred texts and  ceremonial 
rites, are in the end exercises in mindfulness, a self hypnosis 
of sorts. 

The Jade Emperor's Mind Seal  Classic was used daily by 

Taoist  monks,  especially those  of the  Chuan  Chen 
(Complete  Reality)  and  Lung Men (Dragon  Door)  sects,  and 
recited on auspicious days by other sects. At Po Tun Miao 
(White  Cloud Monastery) in Beijing, headquarters for these 
two sects, records show that this text was held in high 
esteem and that the novice  tao shih (Taoist monk) had to 
memorize it during his one-hundred days training before 
ordination. 

The  auspicious  days  mentioned  above  consisted of the 
first and fifteenth days of each lunar month  (these two are 
particularly auspicious because it is believed that the Jade 
Emperor sends the  Four Heavenly Kings  down to  earth to 
check on everyone's behavior, thus you can acquire merit if 
they report your spiritual efforts); the ninth day of the first 
lunar month, which is the Jade Emperor’s Birthday, the  first 
day of the  second lunar month,  the  Festival of the Sun (the 
day the sun visits the Jade  Emperor's Palace  of Miraculous 
Mists to  determine  the  events of the  coming year);  and the 
sixth  day of the  eleventh lunar month,  the Jade Emperor's 
Anniversary on Becoming the Supreme Ruler. 

The Jade  Emperor is, along with the  Eight Immortals 
(pa hsien) the most popular of Taoist celestial beings, all of 
which are part of his court, along with a host of other spiri-
tual beings and immortals.  In popular tales however he is 
not always revered.  He rarely intimidates the immortals of 
lesser rank and is often tricked by them into granting favors 

33 
and promotions, not unlike earthly leaders.  It is not a job to 
which  most immortals aspire, as the powers of that position 
do  have  their limitations. 

There are various interesting accounts as to how he 
became  the Jade  Emperor and three versions of his ascen-
sion.  It is purely a matter of personal  belief as to whether any 
of them are truthful.  However, mythic history, usually told 
in  metaphor,  more  often than not has its base in factual and 
documented history. There is always some truth embedded 
within the myth.  Myth is the more valuable for its unique 
ability to open up and expand the mind, an exercise in imag-
inative powers which is so important to any spiritual endeav-
or, Taoist or otherwise.  Dealing with"just raw facts" tends 
to  block the mind from its creative instincts.  Inner illumina-
tion is far more important to the Taoist than any worldly 
exercise of fact finding. 

To  the Taoist monk either of these  accounts would suf-
fice,  since this august figure is symbolic, rather than person-
al. The first account is probably more fact than  fiction, 
whereas the last two accounts are highly likely just  "wild  his-
tory".  However, to the Taoist these last two might be more 
acceptable in that they have a higher inspirational value than 
the redundant first account -  an attempt to just compile raw 
dat,  most of which could be just as mythical as the other 
two  accounts. 

34 

Three  Accounts  of the  Origin  of 
Yu  Huang  (The  Jade  Emperor) 

The  First Account 

As Buddhism took hold in China during the Tang dynasty, 
the varying Taoist orders grew envious of the well  organized 
Buddhist communities, which erected beautiful temples for 
their patrons.  They became  envious too  of the  Buddhist 
paraphernalia:  their spiritual images, disciplines, rituals and 
volumes of literature.  Especially during the Tang dynasty, 
Buddhism  gained  Imperial patronage, which  put greater 
pressure  on the  Taoist representatives to  get back into  the 
court's  grace  and to regain the  attention  of the  public  at 
large. 

So the Taoists began raising funds to build temples and 
monasteries, established the Taoist Canon, formulated rituals 
and  began  arranging their own  hierarchy of spiritual  beings. 
The  beings were not necessarily new to Taoism, but this was 
the first sincere attempt to present them in an orderly fash-
ion to the outside world.  It was during this period that the 
top-knot was fashioned for all Taoist monks and priests. The 
Buddhists considered this just a ploy to differentiate them-
selves from the  bald-headed Buddhist monks. 

The Jade Emperor was created at this time mostly as a 
direct response and counterpart to the ever growing popu-
larity  of the  Buddhist  trilogies:  Buddha,  Dharma and 
Sangha\  Amitabha  (past  Buddha),  Shakyamuni  (present 
Buddha)  and Maitreya (future  Buddha); and the  Pure  Land 
Sect's trilogy of E Mi  To Fo (Amitabha Buddha),  Kuan Shih 
Tin (Avalokitesvara)  Bodhisattva and  Ta  Chih Shih 
(Mahasthamaprapta) Bodhisattva, which gained great popu-

35 
larity  throughout  China.  In response the Taoists formulated 
their own triad called,  "The Three  Pure  Ones”’ which con-
sisted of the Jade  Emperor, Tao  Chun and Lao Tzu.  Other 
triads were  created  but did not gain the  equivalent broad 
acceptance. So it remains even today. 

It is thought that the Jade Emperor, in his early life, was 
a member of the  Chang clan. Almost all Taoists take  Chang 
as their surname in order to connect themselves with the 
famous  lineage  of Chang Tao-ling of the  Later Han  dynasty, 
the founder of what is called "religious Taoism". So it is no 
great surprise that this lineage would be  associated with him. 
Others propose that he was a well-respected magician  and 
alchemist, and lived sometime during the  early Tang dynasty. 

However, his deification as Jade Emperor, Supreme 

Ruler, did not occur until  1116 A.D.  in the Sung dynasty. 
He was deified, under some suspect conditions, by the Sung 
Emperor,  Hui Tsung.  It seems that an outcast Buddhist 
monk,  Lin  Ling-su,  managed to  convince  the  emperor to 
deify this Tang dynasty magician as Supreme Ruler, with the 
argument that the  Buddhists were  not indigenous to  China 
and that it was not in the  empire's  best interest to condone 
and allow Buddhism to gain such popularity with the  masses. 
However, this was not Lin's true motive. As soon as the 
deification  took place  Lin  attempted to place  himself at the 
head  of this  new Jade  Emperor cult.  He  hoped  thereby to 
crush the  Buddhist influences prevalent in society and 
revenge  himself against those  Buddhist clergy responsible  for 
ousting him. The Jade  Emperor was deified and gained 
broad popularity,  but  Lin Ling-su never achieved his role as 
patriarch  of the  cult he  had  envisioned. 

36 

The Second Account 

Long  before  the  creation of the  Jade  Emperor triad  of the 
Three  Pure  Ones, there were other similar triads in certain 
Taoist circles. The Jade Emperor, it appears, is just one in a 
succession  of Supreme  Rulers.  The  first on  record  is  T'ai  Yi, 
who abdicated in favor of Huang Lao Chun, who in turn 
abdicated to  Tuan Shih  T'en  Tsun,  and finally he abdicated 
his throne to the Jade  Emperor, who presently holds the 
supreme position. However, it is said that when Maitreya 
Buddha enters our world, the Jade Emperor will abdicate his 
throne to another, as he will descend in order to serve this 
Buddha. All the above was supposedly reported by the 
Emperor  Chen Tsung of the Sung dynasty  (912 A.D.), who 
presumably received an edict from the Jade  Emperor himself 
in a dream, informing him that he was about to take charge 
of Heaven  and reside  in the  Palace  of Miraculous Mist, and 
that the next earthly emperor was to deify him as Tu Huang 
Shang  Ti (Jade  Emperor Supreme  Ruler).  Consequently, 
Emperor Hui Tsung in  1115 A.D. deified the Jade Emperor 
and began erecting temples and images in his honor. 

The  Third Account 
The Jade  Emperor is thought to be the son of an Emperor 
named  Ch'ing  Ti, who had a consort called Pao Yueh-
kuang. She had reverently prayed to the gods for a son, as 
the emperor still had no sons to inherit his throne.  She did 
indeed  become pregnant,  much to the  happiness of the 
emperor.  The astrologers predicted a son would rule all of 
heaven and earth. The child was most certainly a male. As 
foretold, brilliant light had shot forth from his body and all 
his physical features were perfect. The story goes on to claim 
that as a youth he had great and far reaching intelligence and 

37 

very deep compassion for all living things. When he finally 
came of age  and inherited his father's throne his acts of char-
ity to the homeless, sick, impaired, orphaned and unjustly 
treated were very generous and kind. After his father's death 
he left the empire, resigning his throne, and travelled to the 

Pu Ming mountains to meditate, whereupon he achieved 

immortality. 

After his departure from this world he was reborn again 

and for eight hundred successive lifetimes taught the com-
mon people  about spiritual  matters and doctrines.  For 
another eight hundred lifetimes he  returned to  this world  to 
cure  the sick and instruct the common people  on  medical 
matters.  For another eight hundred lifetimes he practiced 
unconditional  compassion in  both the hells and on earth. 
Lastly he  descended to this world for yet another eight hun-
dred lifetimes to patiently endure suffering.  It was on the 
completion  of these  three  thousand  two-hundred  lifetimes  of 
spiritual practices that he finally achieved and became the 
first  of the verified order of Golden Immortals.  He was dei-
fied  and ascended to the position of Supreme Ruler, called 
Yu Huang Shang Ti. 

It is from this account that the Jade  Emperor supposed-
ly received his name, Yu (Jade). Since his father's name was 
Ch'ing  (Pure  and  Bright)  and his mother's,  Pao Yueh-kuang 
(Moon Light Gem), the two  names in combination symbol-
ized  white jade  (yu). 

Hsin  Tin  (Mind  Seal) 

Hsin  Tin  is a most difficult term to translate into English, 
which in turn also makes it difficult to explain. The term has 
three very profound and subtle  interconnected definitions. 
The first is that of a deep  and abstract experience  of truth 

38 
gained from the successful practice of meditation, which 
seals the mind forever from ever again entering a state of 
illusion and physical bonds. The experience here is abstract 
in that the realization experienced is wordless, and therefore 
cannot  be  communicated  through  language. 

The second meaning relates to the procedure  and expe-

rience  of mind-to-mind  transmission  from  teacher to  disci-
ple.  In this sense of the term it is the teacher who seals the 
mind  of the  disciple  on  a particular doctrine  or realization. 
This mind-to-mind transmission is again wordless. Though 
words  might be used between them, it would prove quite 
impossible to translate  those words into something compre-
hensible to anyone else. The disciple would be on the edge, 
so to speak, of a final realization and the teacher need only 
inject the proper catalyst for the disciple's transformation. 
The third meaning is very ancient in both  China and 
), a reverse 

India, but was seen as a symbol, wan tzu ( 
swastika.  In Buddhism it is used as a symbol depicting 
Buddha's heart. Taoism, very early on, incorporated it into a 
symbol of immortality.  In  China this symbol was a very old 
form  of the character f a ng  (方), which  meant the  four 
directions.  Later fang became associated with wan (萬),  the 
ten-thousand things (all phenomena).  Hsin Yin is an inter-
changeable  term with wan tzu, hence various translations 
could apply to this term, such as:  "enlightened to all things" 
or "sealing the heart/mind within all phenomena". 

Yin also carries the variant meaning of  "mudra"  a 

Buddhist term denoting a sacred hand position used for vari-
ous  reasons  during  meditation, recitation  of a  mantra or 
scripture and for warding off evil influences. So Hsin Yin 
here could likewise translate as  "Mind  Mudra",  a sacred 
positioning  of the  mind. 

Since the Taoists used wan tzu as a symbol for immor-

39 
ality, the tide of this work could easily be translated as "The 
Jade Emperor's Classic on Immortality", however the mean-
ings implied by "mind  seal"  are more appropriate in connec-
tion with the text, as the purpose of these sacred texts was to 
transmit wisdom which could lead to transformation. 

Ching (Classic) 

Ching means to thread together, such  as strands  of silk 
woven together make a fabric. The lines of the text, indeed 
the characters themselves, are thought to be woven together 
like strands of silk. There has never been a standard in 
English for the translation of this term, as it sometimes 
appears as canon, scripture, treatise or discourse. 

The Chinese Text for Tu Huang Hsin Yin Ching 

THE  JADE  EMPEROR'S  MIND 

SEAL  CLASSIC 

THE SUPREME MEDICINE HAS THREE DISTINCTIONS: 
CHING  (ESSENCE),  CH'I  (VITALITY)  AND  SHEN (SPIRIT), 
WHICH  ARE  ELUSIVE AND  OBSCURE. 

KEEP  TO  NON-BEING,  YET  HOLD  ON  TO  BEING 
AND  PERFECTION  IS YOURS  IN AN  INSTANT. 

WHEN  DISTANT WINDS  BLEND  TOGETHER, 
IN  ONE  HUNDRED  DAYS  OF SPIRITUAL WORK 
AND MORNING RECITATION TO THE SHANG TI, 
THEN  IN  ONE YEAR YOU WILL SOAR AS AN  IMMORTAL. 

THE  SAGES  AWAKEN  THROUGH  SELF-CULTIVATION; 
DEEP,  PROFOUND, 
THEIR PRACTICES  REQUIRE  GREAT  EFFORT. 

FULFILLING  VOWS  ILLUMINES  THE  HEAVENS. 
BREATHING  NOURISHES  YOUTHFULNESS. 

DEPARTING  FROM  THE  MYSTERIOUS,  ENTERING 
THE  FEMALE. 
IT APPEARS TO HAVE PERISHED, YET APPEARS TO EXIST. 
UNMOVABLE,  ITS  ORIGIN  IS MYSTERIOUS. 

EACH  PERSON  HAS  CHING; 
THE SHEN  UNITES WITH THE  CHING; 

THE SHEN UNITES WITH THE CH'I; 
THE BREATH THEN UNITES WITH THE TRUE NATURE. 
BEFORE YOU HAVE ATTAINED THIS TRUE NATURE, 
THESE TERMS APPEAR TO BE FANCIFUL EXAGGERATIONS. 

THE SHEN IS CAPABLE OF ENTERING STONE; 
THE SHEN IS CAPABLE OF PHYSICAL FLIGHT. 
ENTERING WATER IT IS NOT DROWNED; 
ENTERING FIRE IT IS NOT BURNED. 

THE SHEN DEPENDS ON LIFE FORM; 
THE CHING DEPENDS ON SUFFICIENT CH'I. 
IF THESE ARE NEITHER DEPLETED NOR INJURED THE 
RESULT WILL BE YOUTHFULNESS AND LONGEVTIY. 

THESE THREE DISTINCTIONS HAVE ONE PRINCIPLE, 
YET SO SUBTLE IT CAN NOT BE HEARD. 

THEIR MEETING RESULTS IN EXISTENCE, 
THEIR PARTING RESULTS IN NON-EXISTENCE. 

THE SEVEN APERTURES INTERPENETRATE 
AND EACH EMIT WISDOM LIGHT. 

THE SACRED SUN AND SACRED MOON 
ILLUMINATE THE GOLDEN COURT. 
ONE ATTAINMENT IS ETERNAL ATTAINMENT. 

THE BODY WILL NATURALLY BECOME WEIGHTLESS. 
WHEN THE SUPREME HARMONY IS REPLETE, 
THE BONE FRAGMENTS BECOME LIKE WINTER JADE. 

ACQUIRING THE ELIXIR RESULTS IN IMMORTALITY, 

43 

NOT ACQUIRING  IT RESULTS  IN  EXTINCTION, 
THE ELIXIR IS WITHIN YOUR SELF, 
IT IS NOT WHITE AND NOT GREEN. 

RECITE AND  HOLD  TEN-THOUSAND  TIMES, 
THESE ARE THE SUBTLE PRINCIPLES OF 
SELF-ILLUMINATION. 

Lu  Szu-hsing's  Appended  Verses 

THE TWO  IMAGES OF THE DRAGON AND TIGER ARE 
UNIFIED  THROUGH  CH'I; 
CHAOS BLENDING AS ONE. 

IT IS NOT POSSIBLE TO ATTAIN THE ETERNAL JUST 
THROUGH  INVOCATION. 

THE ELIXIR IS  CALLED  "GREEN DRAGON AND 
WHITE TIGER"; 
THE ELIXIR IS THE NATURE OF NO-NATURE, 
EMPTINESS  OF NON-EMPTINESS. 

EVEN IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO MAKE USE OF 
THE  SUBSTANCE, 
YOU CAN CERTAINLY MAKE USE OF THE FUNCTION. 

FREQUENTLY  BOTH THE SUBSTANCE AND 
CONDITIONS FOR THE SUBSTANCE APPEAR 
TOGETHER, 
ALTHOUGH THESE ARE NOT ALWAYS  PERCEIVED 
AS IDENTICAL. 

THE  ANCIENTS  SAID,  "THE  TERM EMPTINESS 
EMBRACES THE ENTIRE TEACHING." 

Commentary 

The supreme medicine has  three 
distinctions:ching  (essence),  ch'i  (vitality)  and 

shen (spirit),which are elusive and obscure. 

The supreme medicine (shang yao), literally translates as, 
“the foremost healing herbs". The full meaning of this medi-
cine includes not only the idea of a preventive or curative 
prescription for physical illnesses, but also the idea of a 
"wonder drug" for all mental and spiritual illnesses. These 
"supreme medicines" are not something external to the self, 
but rather the very forces which constitute your existence. 
These forces are considered by the Taoist as three primary 
functions within each human being: ching) ch'i and shen. 
The three forces are normally referred to in Taoist 

works as "The Three  Treasures"  (san pao).  It is the preserva-
tion  and cultivation of these  three  that promotes health, 
longevity and immortality. Without these forces there can be 
no life, as it is their integration which constitutes existence. 
The degree  of their abundance determines the level and 
quality of your health and the length of your life. Their 
transformation into "the  elixir"  brings about immortality. 

It is the contention of Taoist philosophy that there is no 

reason for a person to ever suffer physical illness and that 
death itself, whether from old age or sickness, is also an 
unnecessary occurence.  Illness and death occur because of 
the  dissipation  and destruction of the Three Treasures. 

At birth everyone acquires a varying degree of hsien 
(Before Heaven) ching, ch'i and shen. After our birth 

46 
we must then learn how to restore, gather and transform 
them. This is called, hou t'ien (After Heaven) ching, ch'i and 
shen. 

The  secret of health, longevity and immortality is not to 
damage the Before Heaven levels of ching, ch'i and shen.  If 
they are damaged, we must learn how to  restore them. The 
next step is  to gather these  three  and then  transform them 
into an elixir which confers immortality. 

Before  going on  to  an  explanation  of each of the  three 

treasures it is worth noting that, within the Tao Te Ching, 
Lao Tzu speaks also of Three Treasures.  However, the trea-
sures of which Lao Tzu speaks have to do with moral con-
ducts, not the forces of hsien  t'ien  and hou  t'ien.  In Chapter 
Sixty-Seven of the  Tao Te Ching the term  "san  pao"  is used, 
wherein  Lao Tzu, speaking of the  practice  of wu wei (non-
aggression), states that his three treasures are frugality, com-
passion and  mindfulness.  Looked at clearly, this expresses the 
idea of the  restoration  and gathering of ching,  ch'i  and shen. 

An  Explanation  of Ching,  Ch'i  and  Shen 

CHING (Essence):  Ching is normally 
translated as "sperm”, but this is incorrect 
in the context of what the Taoists are 
speaking about, as women also have 
ching. In the broad sense, ching is the 
energy inherent within  the  reproductive 
process, the  "giver  of life". Ching is the reason we are born 
and equally the reason we die. Therefore, the Taoists believe 
reverently in both the preservation and conservation of 
ching. For when the ching is strong, vitality and youthful-
ness remain.  In the male, too much dissipation will weaken 

47 

the ching and thus shorten the life-span and produce illness. 
In the female, the ideal is to end the menstrual cycle in order 
to regenerate the ching.  In both cases the ideal is to return 
to the period in our lives when we either did not dissipate 
sperm as males or menstruate as females. This is obviously 

the period of our lives when we were  at the peak of our 

youthfullness and vitality, or had, as Lao Tzu puts it, "the pli-

ability of a child". 

But it is not only sexual dissipation which damages 

ching, as the Taoists believe that food and drink also play a 
major role.  Food and drink enter into the  blood stream and 
thus affect the five viscera and seven openings, leaving 
behind many impurities. To the Taoist, excessive eating and 
drinking is a sign of unrequited sexual desire. Monks, espe-
cially celibate ones, had to be very careful about their diet. 
But we must draw a distinction between excessive eating and 
obesity, as these do not have the same root cause.  Obesity is 
a dysfunction of the  Before  Heaven  ch'i  (inherited). 
Excessive eating is a symptom of After Heaven ch’i (self-
induced).  Excessive eating and drinking is also considered 
the  reason why a monk would enter states of oblivion  during 
meditation.  (I think we've all experienced that after a big 
meal).  To the Taoist the  end result of either excessive eating 
or emission is loss of vital energy.  Great pains are undertak-
en to avoid this, so most Taoists choose celibacy and allow 
only one  meal per day; others choose moderation and frugal-
ity. The goal of all Taoists is to eventually live off the  "wind 
and  dew"  a poetic way of saying ch'i (breath)  and saliva (the 
juice  of immortality). 

The term ching, as it is applied in the meaning of this 
text, makes use of three definitions: the energy which is the 
essence  of procreation;  the  substances  of sperm  and  men-
strual fluids; and, when ching has been transmuted into a 

48 
spiritual  energy,  the  elixir of immortality.  The  Taoist classics 
usually refer to these three with the terms: primal  ching, 
tur-
bid ching and  true  ching.  In  general  terms  all  these  ideas 
equate  to  what  is  called generative force and/or  regenerative 
force, in either the physical or spiritual sense. So to fully 
understand the term ching,  as used in Taoism, there  must be 
an  understanding,  not just  of reproductive  secretions  and 
sexual  energy,  but of transformative  energy as well.  The 
Taoist view of sexual activity falls into three categories:  recre-
ational,  reproductive and  restorative.  The  restoration  or 
repairing of ching falls under the  third category, which  is 
transformative, as only this aspect confers health, longevity 
and  immortality. 

The  etymology  of the  character ching  gives  many clues 
as  to why the Taoists  choose  this  ideogram  to  represent the 
first of the Three Treasures.  First of all, the  main radical  is 
mi  (米),  which  symbolizes  the  idea  of unhulled  or 
uncooked  rice,  the  natural  state  of the  seed.  Secondly,  next 
to  mi stands  ch'ing  (靑),depicting  the  color of nature  in 
the  spring or growing stage, green.  Ch'ing also stands for 
the white  of an egg before the yoke develops.  This ch'ing is 
made  up  of two symbols,  sheng (生),  meaning life  and  birth 
(王  is  often  a contraction of 生),  and  tan (丹), which  can 
mean  both  the  hue  of young,  sprouting plants  and  also 
"elixir". Sheng and  tan combined express  the  idea of "elixir 
of life". 

CH'I  (Vitality):  This  term  can  be  thought 
of as either  "breath",  "vital  life-force"  or 
"an inherent energy within the body". 
The various uses and meanings of ch'i, 
from breath to cosmic energy, make it a 
most difficult term to define. This defini-

49 

tion will focus on personal ch'i. 

All the self cultivation practices for developing ch'i 

come down to one fundamental aspect, the warming of body 

fluids  (blood, sexual secretions and body fluids). In the I 
Ching  (Book of Changes) this is depicted by the image of 
the sixty-third hexagram, After Completion, which  is  repre-
sented  by the  diagrams of water  (k'an)  over fire (li). 

Using self-cultivation practices the blood is heated as it 
is stimulated through abdominal  breathing; the  blood then 
circulates more  freely and begins heating the  bones, turning 
them into  marrow, which in turn causes the  bones to be 
more pliable, yet strong and indestructible. The heat gener-
ated through abdominal  breathing will  also warm the other 
body fluids and the sexual secretions (ching). When all this 
occurs you can then sense  free circulation of blood flow, the 
movement of ch'i rising from the  tan-tien,  along with an 
increased sense  of vitality,  stamina  and lightness  of body. 

The  human  body,  according to Taoist thought, contains 
five activities (wu hsing, the Five Elements). These are earth, 
wind, fire, water and metal.  Earth represents the bones and 
flesh; wind represents the breath; fire, the heat (ch'i); water, 
the blood and other body fluids (ching); and metal, the elixir 
and spirit (shen). The process of refinement (lien) men-
tioned in many Taoist works, is simply a matter of: wind 
(breath)  stimulating heat (ch'i), ch'i  (fire) stimulating the 
blood  (water)  and blood  (water)  stimulating the  bones and 

50 
flesh  (earth), to reach a state where the elixir is formed and 
the  shen  stimulated  (metal). 

In another analogy, when the breath is full the ch'i is 

abundant, when the  ch'i is abundant the  blood will circulate, 
when the blood circulates, the bones and flesh are nour-
ished,  and when  the  bones  and flesh are  nourished the  elixir 
can be  formed. 

From the above explanations you will readily see why 
ch'i is so difficult to define, as there are many facets of ch'i. 
Ch'i  is in the breath, in the heat, in the blood, in the bones 
and flesh and in the elixir. 

The  terms  used, full, abundant, circulate and  nourished 

should be explained further.  "Full"  means that you are 
breathing with the entire  body and that the  breath is focused 
in the tan-tien, like a bellows.  "Abundant”  is the stage of 
experiencing heat throughout the  body.  "Circulate"  is the 
stage where the ch'i is experienced in the tan-tien and is cir-
culating throughout the  body, like steam  driving the  piston 
of an  engine.  Normally we  must do  something physical  to 
get an increased blood flow, but in this case it is the ch'i cir-
culating the blood flow. "Nourished" is the process whereby 
the stimulated blood flow and ch'i circulation begin perme-
ating  the flesh and  bones with ch'i. 

Etymologically the character ch'i is formed by two radi-

cals. The first is ch'i (气), which represents several ideas, 
such as:  a cloudy vapour, aura, spirit, breath, air and ether. 
The  earliest meaning of this was  "curling vapours which  rise 
up from the earth to form the clouds above". The radical is 
derived from two symbols, yun (雲),  clouds and chih (乙), 
the  seed within  man.  The  second aspect of ch'i  is the  radical 
mi (米),  identical to that used in ching.  From these  the 
idea is expressed of "vapours which rise in the process of 
cooking  rice". 

51 

SHEN  (Spirit):  There are  fundamentally 
three  categories  of "spirit  energies":  ming 
shen (bright spirit),  hsin shen (mind/heart 
spirit)  and ling shen (immortal spirit). 
These  three  are  called  San  Hun  (The 
Three  Spiritual  Energies):  where,  ming 

shen  corresponds  to  ch'i,  hsin  shen  to  ching and  ling  shen  to 

shen.  Accumulating the ch'i causes the shen to become 

bright; when the ching is restored the shen manifests itself; 
and when the shen is transformed the shen is immortalized. 

This is however a most difficult process to achieve, as 
we humans are affected by the Seven Emotions (ch'i p'o), 
which  negate  the  transformation  of our  hun shen (or,  san 
hun). The Seven  Emotions are:  happiness, joy, anger, grief, 
love, hatred and desire.  All of these have negative  effects on 
the  progress  of self-cultivation  of the  Three  Treasures,  which 
in turn affects our spiritual  development. 

The Taoist believes that when  a human  being is born  to 
this  earth  they  inherently  acquire  a  hun spirit and  a p'o spirit. 
The hun  spirit is a representation  of yang, heaven and 
immortality.  The  p'o  spirit is a representation of yin, earth 
and  mortality. 

If we  function during our lives totally within the Seven 
Emotions,  then  at  death when  the  hun  and p'o  separate, we 
will  return to  earth  as one  type  of kuei (ghost).  The  kuei 
does not survive long and fades away to become a  chi (dead 
ghost). The hun on the  other hand is in a sense immortal, as 
it survives  a very long  time,  but will in  time  die if not united 
with  a  p'o  spirit in which  to  return to earth and try again.  If 
the  feet  are warm  immediately after the  point of death  then 
the  p'o  descended; if the  top  of the  head  is warm  then  the 
hun  ascended,  a  tell-tale  sign  of whether or not the  person's 
spiritual practice bore any fruit.  In  brief, the only way out of 

53 
this cycle is for the hun to undergo transformation as a true 
immortal. 

When the shen is strong the mental faculties are sharp 

and lucid. Shen is expressed externally through the eyes, 
revealing not only a deep and profound intelligence, but a 
clarity and brightness of presence also. A strong shen 
enhances the  ability of sight and mental insight.  These are all 
aspects  of attaining  ming shen. 

When the  shen can  be  both retained internally and 

expressed externally then the  shen can be released from the 
body at will, which is an effect of hsin shen. However, this is 
a very difficult stage to pass through because the shen, as 
years pass,  becomes ever increasingly attached to the physical 
body.  Usually only in a dream state can the shen be released 
to wander about. This is not truly an effect of hsin shen. 
Only willed and conscious release is a mark of this achieve-
ment. 

When we are young the shen is strong and not so 

attached to the body, which is why we can have so many  fly-
ing dreams in our youth. We feel immortal. We do not truly 
accept or comprehend death, old age and sickness.  Time 
itself seems slower when young. Anyone  can tell you how 
long summer  vacation  seemed to be in their childhood. 
However, in old age we become more material, clinging to 
forms and objects in hopes of prolonging life and, ultimately, 
avoiding death.  The  mind becomes ever more  narrowed and 
unaccepting, time begins flying by ever quicker; days, 
months and years are perceived as becoming shorter and 
shorter. An old Chinese saying relates,  "Pay heed young 
man, for in the twinkle of an eye you will be an old man.” 

However, if the shen is made strong, death is no longer 

a concern, time slows down and you become increasingly 
content with not only your lot in life,  but with  the world 

53 
around you as well. All becomes tranquil.  Like a youth, you 
are  at playful  ease.  The  attachment to the seven  emotions 
ceases and the shen is free to interact with all conditions 
which arise. As the  Taoist puts it,  "you will  remain  unmoved 
even if Mt.  Tai  falls in  front of you.” 

The  derivation  of the  character shen  is  based  on  two 

radicals, shih (示) a nd  shen (申).  Shih is derived from  erh 
(而) ,but   this is yet an old form  of shang (上),  meaning 
heaven or the  highest point,  and  chuan ( 川),   which depicts 
those things which are  suspended from heaven:  sun,  moon 
and stars.  Combined,  these  radicals  originally meant the 
influx  of things  from  heaven which  reveal  transcendent  mat-
ters to humans. Shen, the second radical is also a derivation 
of  ti'en (田),  a  cultivated field. The  extension  of the  central 
vertical stroke (  |  ),  connotes a connective image between 
heaven  and  earth. 

The Three Treasures  are elusive, which  means  that seek-
ing any of them  as  an  object of possession will  only result in 
them eluding you even further.  They are  not tangible sub-
stances or objects.  The problem here is not a question of 
whether or not  they are  real  or unreal,  rather  that  our  minds, 
in the  deluded  sense,  cannot comprehend what the  Taoists 
call,  "the  true  emptiness  of emptiness”,  or as the  Buddhist 
Heart  Sutra  states, "form is just emptiness, emptiness is just 
form."  In analogy, this is like  a person wanting to scoop up 
the reflection of the  moon in the water with his hands, 
thinking that the reflection is the real  moon.  The Three 
Treasures  are  like  this also,  because through the  experiences 
of cultivating  them  we  attach  ourselves  to  the  sensations, 
only to  discover that these  are  but reflections. 

They are also  obscure  which  indicates that using the 
rational  mind  to  somehow experience  and  analyze  them 
without self-cultivation will only lead to further distortion. 

54 
Again, in analogy, this is like the man scooping up the reflec-
tion  of the moon, but now when his hands actually touch the 
water the image of the moon is distorted. What at one point 
seemed so real is now revealed as an illusion. So the idea of elu-
sive relates to our conception that these three treasures have 
form and are real; obscure relates to our experience of seeing 
them as empty and illusionary. These two extreme views are a 
natural progression for any who undergo self-cultivation. Then 
we swing back and forth between views of real and unreal, 
bouncing off the extremes in hopes of finding the middle. 
More on this later. 

The Chinese characters for elusive and obscure are, huang 
huang hu hu, which were borrowed from Lao Tzu in the  Tao 
Te Ching. However, Lao Tzu used them in the singular, huang 
hu. The doubling is just to be more expressive. As a compound 
huang hu means "the  unconscious",  "illusory"  and "elusive". 
Lao Tzu used these two characters to express the idea of being 
lost and confused about spiritual reality and unreality. 

Only the person who looks up and sees the true moon, 
not the reflected image, can transcend and awaken to the illu-
sion of the moon in the water. Likewise, the depth of our 
attachment to the illusory moon can become almost unfath-
omable, for one illusion may yet be distorting another illusion. 
For example, you may see a small moon in a small body of 
water and a large moon in a large body of water. Each moon is 
relative to the body of water it is reflected in. Therefore, if you 
never see the true moon, your perception will always be condi-
tioned  by the illusory, reflected moon. 

So the text begins by telling us that the medicine is for 

immortality, but then immediately warns us about the extremes 
of perception to which we may attach ourselves in trying to 
obtain these medicines. 

Keep to non-being yet hold onto being 
and perfection is yours in an instant. 

55 

This is the secret of immortality, but it is very difficult 

to understand because we  are caught in the  realm of duality. 
We cannot perceive anything without simultaneously delud-
ing ourselves with its opposite. For example, we cannot 

know white without comparing it to black.  Everything is like 
this: male/female, up/down, hot/cold. So the text here is 
revealing something very important, which is why Lu Szu-
hsing considers it the most important line. This particular 
verse is taken from the  Tao Te Ching and has been interpret-
ed with various explanations. 

In order to gain some understanding we must  first 

examine the terms, being and  non-being.  In the  Chinese the 
characters are yu (being)  and pu yu (non-being). Yu means 
"to  have"  or “to  exist",  pu yu means  "not  to  have"  or "not 
to exist".  From this the idea is  "keeping to non-existence, 
yet holding onto  existence",  or "keeping to non-emptiness, 
yet holding onto  emptiness".  Consider again the analogy of 
the person wanting to scoop the reflected moon from the 
water. When the person sees the reflected moon in the water 
and thinks it real, this person is attached to  being. 
Conversely, when attempting to scoop the  moon up, this 
person becomes attached to  non-being. This is just how we 
as human beings perceive everything, either convinced that 
everything is real or that everything is unreal.  But these are 
just extreme views and have nothing to do with this verse. 
So how do we  gain some  understanding of this verse? 

First, know that things are  “not-two”. Things are not either 
non-being or being.  In relation to the Three Treasures they 
are  neither non-real nor real.  However necessary such phi-
losophizing might  be, to  really get to  the  heart of this verse 

Accumulating  light 

we  need  to  have  some  knowledge  of both Taoist doctrine 
and self-cultivation practices. To avoid becoming confused 
the  reader will  need some  fundamental  knowledge  of medi-
tation  and the  internal energy doctrines  of Taoism.  The  text 

57 

itself presents itself to  the  tao shih (ordained Taoist)  from  a 
level which takes  for granted their knowledge  of such  matters. 

In very early Taoist practices  there were  two  processes 

necessary for the  attainment of immortality.  The  first was 
called, yang hou  (yang  heat)  and  the  second, yin fu  (converg-
ing the yin).  In  more understandable  terminology this can 
mean,  the seen (yang)  and  unseen (yin). Yang ascends and yin 
descends. Within fire there is heat and within water is cool-
ness. These ideas are usually expressed in Taoism as  Green 
Dragon  and White  Tiger,  but the  teaching has  been pervert-
ed into  a  gymnastics  of breath  control  and  mental visualiza-
tions.  Almost all  contemporary Taoist teachings  are  really 
just the  process  of yang hou, which is only the process of 
accumulating and circulating ch'i. This  is not to  say that 
yang hou is not a necessary process,  but that it is only half 
the  story. 

In reference to Lao Tzu's verse, "hold onto being", 

yang hou is "being". Yin fu is then  "keeping to non-being". 
Or as Lao Tzu also said, “from nothing comes something." 
What this  means  in connection with this text is  that when we 
cultivate  the  Three Treasures  on  the  level  of restoration, 
accumulation  and  stimulation, we  are  only exercising the 
processes  of yang hou, which is the process of refining ching 
and transmuting ch’i.  However, when we  refine  the  ch'i and 
transmute the shen this is yin fu or as the text calls it "instan-
taneous  perfection”. 

However,  how do we  "keep  to  non-being and hold 
onto  being"  in  the  same instance?  How can we possibly 
embrace  something  and  nothingness  simultaneously? 
Without involving ourselves in  specialized jargon, we  can 
paraphrase  Lao  Tzu's  advice  on  experiencing  or perceiving 
the Tao.  If it  (Tao)  cannot be seen, then stop  the looking; if 
it (Tao)  cannot be  heard, then stop  the  listening; if it (Tao) 

58 
cannot be grasped, stop the grasping; if you cannot think 
your way to it (Tao), then stop the thinking.  For as long as 
this "Tao" is viewed as an object or goal, it will be forever 
elusive  and obscure. 

We are like a person who is under the illusion of being 
imprisoned and frantically attempts to pry the  door open  to 
escape. Yet, in reality, this person is just breaking into a 
prison. This is synonymous with the process of yang hou, for 
immortality is still not attained.  My teacher, Master Liang, 
would say humorously "yang hou is like eating, yin fu is like 
defecating.  If you only practice yang hou you will stagnate, 
maybe  burn up.  So don't just eat and never defecate.  Don't 
just borrow and never  lend".  Humorous,  but true. 

In Buddhism this same process was explained by 

Bodhidharma (Tamo)  in the two works he left behind called, 
Tin  Chin  Ching  (The  Muscle  Change  Classic)  and  Hsi Sui 
Ching(The  Marrow Cleansing Classic). The Yin  Chin Ching 
reveals the yang hou process and Hsi Sui Ching, the yin fu. 
But few are those who can truly explain yin fu in the context 
of attainment, for it is not purely a question of intellectual 
understanding, rather of actual  accomplishment, which  is 
"uniting with the void." The Hsi Sui Ching in particular is 
not written in  the  form  of method, rather in  the perception 
of the  effects. 

In brief, this line of the text is referring to the Taoist 
goal  of Returning to the Source and  on  perfecting the  elixir 
of immortality. Which in analogy is the  man scooping the 
moon from the water.  However, in this instance he is no 
longer confused  about the  illusionary nature  of the two 
(being and non-being), as he now perceives the truth  of the 
source of the reflected and distorted moons, as well as being 
able  to look directly at the True  moon  (True Nature). At 
this time he is instantly awakened and will never be confused 

59 

by the two  (being and non-being)  again. 

When distant winds blend together, 
in one hundred days  of spiritual work 
and morning recitation to the Shang Ti, 
then in one year you will soar as an immortal. 
Distant winds is  an  aphorism  for  the  ching,  ch'i  and 

shen  in  the  unrefined  and  unrestored  state.  Blending together 
means that they have  been transmuted into  the  "elixir of 
immortality".  This stage  of practice  is also  called  "setting up 
the  consciousness".  It  centers  itself on working with  the 
light within the  eyes,  a result of having refined ching and 
transmuting  ch'i. 

One hundred days of spiritual work is  a  reference  to  the 

actual  period  of time  for the  ordination  of a Taoist  monk 
(tao shih). Within this time frame the would-be  monk is 
required  to  establish within  himself all  the  disciplines  and 
moral  deportments  necessary  for  the  cultivation  of immortal-
ity.  One of these  disciplines is what is commonly called 
"Virgin Boy  Training",  which is one hundred days of pre-
serving and restoring the  ching.  It is thought in Taoism  that 
if a person undergoes this training their ching can be  fully 
restored  to  equal  their ching prior to  losing their virginity.  It 
would  also  reveal very quickly  to  the  chief ordination  monks 
whether or not this  person was  suited to  spiritual  and 
monastic life. 

Another, far more  profound viewpoint on  this,  comes 

from  the  Me Wang Ching (Classic on Regarding the  Pulses): 
“When  the  ch'i  of the  primal  spirit  (yuan  shen)  has  not yet 
been experienced,  the  idea is  to perceive  that  "one  thing" 
which  is like  a great weight dropping directly down into the 
tan-tien  to  begin  the  completion  of the  elixir.  Afterwards 

60 
continue  breathing and let it join naturally, yet constantly be 
mindful of it and not for a moment let it go. This is the true 
meaning of "one hundred days of spiritual groundwork", 
which is just a term for the art of perfecting the elixir.  One 
hundred days is only an approximate number." 

Recitation refers to five primary texts which were mem-

orized by the tao shih and chanted every morning:  Tu 
Huang  Ching,  San Kuan  Ching,  Chen  Wu  Ching,  T'ai 
Shang Kan  Ting Pien and  Wen  Ch'ang  Ti  Chun  Tin  Chih 
Wen. 

Shang Ti here is a reference to  both the Jade  Emperor 
and  his entire  court of celestial  beings. When  they witness 
the  monk's sincere practice  and devotion  to the  attainment 
of the  Way,  hey would be  moved to lend spiritual  aid to the 
future immortal.  In Taoism there is a saying which relates to 
this.  "When a person finds the Way, heaven is gentle. When 
the Way is not found earth is harsh.” 

Then in one year you will soar as an immortal. The 

Taoist believes that it takes a human being  about one year to 
enter this earthly realm  and that it should take  no  longer to 
become an immortal, as both are just a transformation 
process. 

There  is another viewpoint on this line  of the  text, 

which is that it could read,  "In  one year an ascending 
immortal will  appear". A spirit guide will come to aid the 
cultivator at a certain stage in his development in order to 
hurdle him past some very formidable obstacles. 

However, in more practical Taoist terms this verse is 

more likely a reference to the notion that it is the shen which 
is released from the physical body. Since the shen retains the 
image  of the body, exactly like  that in the  dream-state, it 
only appears to be flying. Actual physical flight is an entirely 
different subject in Taoism, as there appears to be two dis-

An Ascending (Sky Flying) Immortal. 

62 
tinct  beliefs. Some only accept that it is the shen which is 
released and thus flies.  Others accept the fact that it is the 
physical body which flies. We also find this in Buddhism.  Rsi 
(immortals)  are classified into five types: heavenly immortals, 
earth wandering immortals, spirit immortals, sky  flying 
immortals  and  ghost immortals. 

However, flying or soaring is an incidental term here in 

comparison  to  the  term "immortal"(hsien jen).  The  term 
has such a wide usage in Taoism that it is difficult to give it a 
particular meaning.  It has been used posthumously for many 
sages and yogins, and awarded as an honorific to those of old 
age.  However, no matter the usage, to be an immortal has 
always  been the  goal  of Taoists. Whether or not to be 
immortal meant actual physical flesh and blood transforma-
tion to eternal life, or immortality of the hun shen, or extra-
ordinary long-life, the  idea of immortality permeates all  of 
Taoism. 

Immortality is divided into three categories:  the highest 
level is called "a heavenly  immortal",  second highest is,  "an 
earthly  immortal",  and the lowest is called "a corpse freed 
immortal”. According to Ko Hung (author of the  Pao P'o 
Tzu)  those  immortals  of the  highest grade  can  ascend their 
bodies directly into the Void, and are then classified as 
"Heavenly Immortal".  Those  of the  middle  grade  retreat to 
the mountains to refine the elixir even further, and are 
termed  "Earthly Immortal". The third type can only be 
freed from the body at death, yet the shen (spirit) remains 
intact, and are called  "Corpse Freed Immortal". The highest 
grade becomes a heavenly official; the middle grade joins the 
earthly immortals on Mount K'un-lun; and the  third grade 
enjoys longevity and te (virtue) on earth. Those who are des-
tined to  become heavenly immortals can achieve their aim 
even if serving in the  military. Those to be earthly immortals 

63 

can do so even if serving as a government official. The 
corpse freed immortal however needs to first retreat to the 

mountains or forest. 
In  the  Immortal Classic (Hsien  Ching)  it adds  that 

heavenly Immortals can make gold from cinnabar, the elixir 
of immortality. Earthly Immortals can only make use of 
herbs, mushrooms, internal calisthenics (e.g., T'ai Chi 
Ch'uan) and breathing exercises (e.g., Tao Yin and Ch'i 
Kung). Those of the third grade can only maintain them-
selves through the ingestion of herbs. However, the practical 
basis  and only requirement for the attainment of immortality 

lies in three fundamental things: the treasuring of ching, the 

circulation of ch'i and the taking of one crucial medicine 
(the elixir), which is produced from the first two. The secret 
is knowing how to treasure the ching and how to circulate 

the  ch'i. There are numerous methods for both and you 
must be able to distinguish the profound from the shallow. 

Through  purity  the 

ching is treasured; through 
tranquility the  ch'i  is  circu-
lated; through  emptiness the 
shen is awakened. The ideas 
of purity,  tranquility  and 
emptiness are all within the 
mind.  In Taoism the words 
"bathing" and "washing" are 
used frequently, but this is 
just a reference to these three 
processes.  Some later Taoists’ 
especially those  of the 
hygiene schools, adapted 
these two words in the 
names for specific exercises, 

The creation of the 
immortal  foetus 

64 
but the  meanings are  quite  different. 

Something should also  be said here  about the  differ-

ences  in  the  terminology  of immortality  and  enlightenment, 
as so  many of us confuse  these  two  and tend to lump them 
into the same basket.  The highest stage in Taoism is called 
kung  hsing  (Void Nature),  called sunyata in  Buddhism.  This 
stage  ends in  the  fourth heavenly realm above  Mt.  K'un-lun, 
but is still in the realm  of form  as it is only the nature of 
voidness,  not voidness of itself.  This  is the level  of heavenly 
immortals  and  is  indeed  enlightenment  (chio),  but not the 
level  that  Buddha  attained  and  called,  annumrasamyaksam-
bodhi, which leads to nirvana, wherein all realms are sur-
passed  and  extinguished.  Therefore, in the  context of 
Buddhist  and Taoist definitions  of  "awakened",  the  terms 
enlightenment  and  immortality are  not  always  identical. 
Even so, kung hsing is  a very high state  of attainment. 
Earthly immortals  do  attain  a state  of awakening  (wu),  but 
are  limited  to  realizations  concerning this  realm  of form  and 
the unrealness of it.  Corpse Freed immortals are not neces-
sarily awakened  but do  acquire  a great deal  of wisdom.  In 
brief, heavenly immortals are  those which leave  this earth 
and  function  somewhere within  the  Jade  Emperor's  Court; 
earthly immortals are usually referred to  as True  Men  (chen 
jen); and,  Corpse  Freed immortals are those coined as Sages 
(sheng). 

The  term immortal  (hsien) is also used in  China rather 
freely.  Indeed it is used in so many variant descriptions that 
even a learned Taoist would find difficulty in defining it in a 
(definitive manner.  Old men are frequently called, in the hon-
orific sense,  "old  immortal".  Taoist monks, whether accom-
plished or not, are usually referred to as  "immortal”.  There 
is  also  the  problem  of those  magician-alchemist Taoists who 
sought  immortality  only  through  the  transmutation  of base 

metals, herbs and plants. I do not know that such formulas 
really existed or worked,  and if so,  I would  be  hard pressed 
to understand how awakening or enlightenment could  be  a 

direct effect of such formulas. 

The sages awaken through self-cultivation; deep, 
profound, their practices require great effort. 

Even  if you were  born with  many inherent spiritual  pen-

etrations you  must still  cultivate yourself, or you will lose 
them.  No one is exempt.  Anybody seeking to  be an immor-
tal must undergo the spiritual work, which is very difficult. 
However, the difficulty is really only in the repetition of 
practices.  The  text states  that the work required is deep  and 
profound,  meaning that it  must  be  investigated  and  thought 
out very well,  through  both  study and practice.  You can't 
just pick up  a  book on Taoism,  read it  and  think you've  got 
it. You  must study intensely every day. Without great patient 
effort and  diligent study you cannot accomplish it.  A Ch'an 
adage reflects this well,  "Cultivation is like climbing up a 
hundred  foot  greased pole;  enlightenment is synonymous  to 
reaching the  top  of the  pole  and then  making a great leap 
upward."  Climbing the  greased pole takes great effort,  but 
leaping from  it takes not only great courage,  but wisdom  as 
well. 

During a discussion long ago with  Master Liang, a most 
accomplished  "old  rogue"  as  Chuang Tzu might call  him,  he 
told  me,  "If  you truly want to  be  an immortal,  then simply 
give  up your mortal  ways."  Thinking this over we  can see 
how very arduous this could be.  It sounds so simple, yet it is 
deep and profound.  It sounds easy, yet indeed it is difficult. 
For how many of us  in  truth  could  apply ourselves  to  the 
required  spiritual work for even  one  day, not to  mention  one 

66 
hundred days? Very, very few I think.  How many for that 
matter could do  it steadfastly for one  hundred days,  not to 
mention  an entire lifetime?  Even less  I'm  sure.  Most of us, 
simply give  up anything after a little  bit of suffering or 
inconvenience and fall quickly back into our mortal plea-
sures. 

Sometimes  I  think our modern  society has  redefined  the 

term "Three Treasures" to mean, "sex, drugs and 
rock'n'roll". The Taoists have a saying,  "it  is easy to do bad, 
but most difficult to  do  good."  If someone says,  "hey, let's 
go  out and get a  drink",  we  follow without the  least bit of 
resistance.  However, if they said,  "hey, let's go  out and help 
the  homeless",  much  thought and  excuse would intervene. 
Attachment to the desire for acceptance  has always been a 
human roadblock.  The  desire for acceptance  is really none 
other than  conformity and  the Taoists have  always sought to 
rid  themselves  of that  trait. 

On  a  more  humorous, yet truthful  note,  Master Liang's 

teacher,  Cheng Man-ch’ing, was said to possess Five 
Excellences:  painting,  medicine, calligraphy, poetry and T'ai 
Chi  Ch'uan.  Master Liang claims  that before he  met his 
teacher he also had five perfections: drinking, drugs, woman-
izing,  gambling and smoking. Afterwards, given a diagnosis 
of only two  months to live  at age  forty five, he  took up T'ai 
Chi  Ch'uan  and out lived even his  teacher.  So today he  lives 
to  tell  people  to  give  up  their bad habits  and  renew them-
selves each  and every day. 

The  main problem is that people need  a real  reason, 

usually life  threatening,  to give  up what they consider a plea-
surable  habit.  People  usually don't change  their modes  of 
behavior without being almost forced into it.  "To  remove  a 
mountain is easy,  but to change  a man's temperament is 
most difficult", and this is the  reason why the  "sages  awaken 

67 

through self-cultivation;  deep, profound,  their practices 
require great  effort,  because the practice is ultimately about 
changing  themselves. 

Even  though the  text here  speaks  of practice,  this  does 

not imply fanaticism  nor physical  and  mental  exertion, which 
would just  be  the  opposite  extreme  of being unmindful  and 
slothful. The Middle Way (chung tao) is in essence  "hitting 
the  bull's  eye".  Being extreme  about anything only ends up 
in being led off course. A Chinese adage,  "home  for one day, 
gone  for three"  means that it is better to practice every day 
for one hour, then to practice  for one  full day and quit for 
three. 

The word practice  in English carries two  meanings.  The 

first is something we do repeatedly to get better. The sec-
ond, is an occupation or hobby, such as a doctor, who per-
forms what he  knows in a repetitive  manner. Taoist practice 
is like the latter. 

The first meaning implies too  much stress on  goal  ori-

entation,  competitiveness  and  ego, which  are  none  other 
than aggression, a negative  attribute  for the Taoists.  The lat-
ter however is  more  in keeping with the  idea of wei wu wei 
(active non-aggression). Simply use the knowledge at hand, 
practice  it,  and gradually perfection will be  achieved without 
the  ego  of achieving.  Chuang Tzu states,  "knowledge  is 
unlimited",  so  don't think that you need  to  know everything 
before practicing, no one can. Success is in the doing, not in 
the  procrastinating. 

You  must  never  shun  either  the  study  of your practice 

nor  the  contemplative  examination  of it.  Albert  Einstein 
rightly said,  "Practice without theory is  blind; theory with-
out practice is sterile". The practice is arduous only in that it 
must be repetitive, day after day, night after night. With 
every success continue  to practice, keep refining it. 

68 
Unwavering practice is indeed most difficult. Your own sin-
cerity will lead you to the right door. Simply endure the rep-
etition, then teachers, books and experiences all come about 
in their due  time. 

Another problem, indigenous to us Westerners in par-

ticular, is what Master Liang coined as "hippie-ippy 
Taoism",  wherein laziness and lack of ambition is justified 
with  the  sixties notion  of wu wei. Nothing could be more 
erroneous.  True Taoist practice  takes great discipline, 
endurance and patience. Just to lay back, sleep, cook rice and 
call it wu wei is most absurd. 

Fulfilling vows  illumines  the Heavens. 

It is said that "when you are in harmony with the Way, 
heaven is gentle". To fulfill a vow means to eradicate greed. 
Some Taoists make vows of poverty, silence, charity, service, 
celibacy or practice. To fulfill a vow means that some form of 
sacrifice has to be made, thereby ridding the mind of greed. 
The heavenly beings are said to get excited about those who 
undertake such tasks because to them it means that there is 
someone down here on earth who may join them in the 
future. They prepare by lighting up the various palaces in 
heaven so that the cultivator can find it.  Really I don't know 
if this is true or not.  I heard it somewhere and thought I'd 
share it. The  I Ching says, "All things of this earth are but 
archetypes in heaven". If there is war on earth, then the heav-
enly beings are fighting with heavenly demons, and so on. 
What I do know to be true is that fulfilling vows illu-

mines your mind. There is a definite clarity and light which 
results from this. Once I read a story about a monk who 
vowed to  bow to the ground every three steps from temple 
to temple for three years in earnest, so that he could transfer 

spiritual merit to his parents after their death.  Really a hard 

job.  An onlooker asked the monk, "Why are you bowing like 
that?” The monk answered, "Because I’m grateful." 
"Grateful for what?" the onlooker questioned again. 
"Ultimately, nothing", the  monk responded,  “but it is such a 
bright  and wonderful  state  of mind."  If you understand this 
monk's meaning you will know why fulfilling vows illumines 
the  heavens. 

Breathing nourishes  youthfulness. 

This is so  simple  that it protects itself from  being dis-

covered.  In fact it is so simple that unless someone tells you, 
you would  never  even  think  of it  and when  someone  tells 
you it isn't believed.  Chuang Tzu talked  about it quite  clear-
ly,  but everyone  still  runs  around looking for that big secret. 
Lao Tzu told  us not to  leave  our own  house,  but off we go 
on a thousand mile journey. The breath is mind; the mind is 
breath.  Even  many well  known Taoists  “put legs on  a snake" 
and  make  breathing techniques complicated  and  further con-
fuse the issue  by implying a secrecy to the technique. Not 
that all these techniques  and teachers per se are neither right 
or true.  Some techniques are indeed useful in various situa-
tions.  But to  acquire  and  maintain youthfulness  and  tranquil-
ity is quite simple. 

First you  need  to  understand  the  term  "natural  breath-
ing", which is really not a method at all. The term is trying 
to make clear the idea of breathing as we did as a small  baby. 
Lao Tzu's  question,  “Can you  attain  the  pliability of a 
child?,  is a reference to this subject. Lao Tzu also said, "the 
whole  of cultivation  is in subtraction, not  addition."  Taoism 
focuses  on  reversal,  restoration  and  rejuvenation  to  that state 

70 
when we were a child, to youthfulness. 

During the span of our life our breath constantly rises 

upwards, until at death the breath finds itself in the throat, not 
in the lower abdomen as it was during childhood. When 
young our cheeks are reddened, joints slightly bent, the bones 
soft, the body is warm and the breath is "natural", and concen-
trated in the abdomen. As we get older our cheeks pale, joints 
stiffen, bones become brittle, the body chills and the breath is 
concentrated in the chest. The Taoist seeks to reverse this and 
return to a more natural state of health and vitality. 

When a child breathes there are no thoughts of  fixing 

the breath in the abdomen, the breath is there naturally. The 
child also breathes fully with the abdomen, meaning the 
entire stomach expands and contracts slightly so that it func-
tions like a bellows or balloon, not like those stomach push-
ers who just expand and contract the  front of the  stomach. 
This is only half breathing. The breath should be felt on the 
lower spine  and on both sides of the lower abdomen as well. 
The big secret is really no secret at all. All that need be 
done is focus the mind on the tan-tien, not the breath; the 
breath will  follow the mind.  Mind does not follow the 
breath. 

To  breathe  naturally you must allow the  breath  to 
become deep, slow and harmonious. This is something 
which cannot be  forced by a method or technique.  Picture 
your mind as a dirty glass of water. The more you agitate it 
the cloudier it becomes.  However,  if you just let the glass sit, 
the debris will gradually filter to the  bottom and the water 
will  become clear again.  Trying to make the  breath deep, 
slow and harmonious is like stirring the water; the breath 
cannot be natural because you are forcing it. But just by let-
ting it go, it will sink of its own  accord and become natural. 
So natural breath means just that, to  be natural.  How to be 

71 

natural?  Calm the  mind,  empty your mind, don't fill it with 
techniques and schemes. As the mind settles so will the 
breath,  but you cannot force this to happen, it can only 
come  about naturally.  Eventually, when the  mind  and  breath 
settle, the  breath will  be  almost undetectable, like  Chuang 
Tzu's  "withered log and dead  ashes"  analogy. 

Yin Shih Tzu, a famous Taoist contemporary’ relates in 
his work that,  "when I  left the  breath alone  to sink into the 
tan-tien  of its  own  accord then  the  ch'i  rose  upwards  and cir-
culated throughout all  my  limbs."  His only technique was 
simply,  "abiding  by the  tan-tien",  meaning he only focused 
his attention  on  the tan-tien, not his breath.  The  T'ai  Chi 
Ch'uan  Classics  relate  the  same  principle  of not focusing on 
the breath as it will only result in obstructing the ch'i. 

There  are  many techniques  related within Taoist works 
concerning breathing exercises, such as holding the  breath, 
embryonic  breath, reverse  breath, tortoise breath. All these 
exercises  are valuable.  However, natural  breathing should  be 
considered  both the  basis  and  the  culmination  of all the 
techniques.  Without acquiring natural  breath  the  other 
methods  are  merely fascinating toys and lead nowhere except 
for some psychological and possibly physical ills. The  other 
techniques  become valuable  only after you have  experienced 
and can  consciously control  the  circulation  of ch'i,  not 
before. As Master Liang related,  "don't speak of defecation 
to  a starving  man;  don't speak of winter to the  mayfly."  The 
first  and biggest step is to acquire natural breath.  Don't 
bother with  other forms  of breathing until you've  accom-
plished it.  Don't be like the man in the Ming dynasty who 
bought  a  thousand  books  but  could  not  read. 

Breathing is not a secret, or if it is, then it is an "open secret". 
For natural breathing occurs naturally, not by force or invention. 

72 
Departing from  the Mysterious, 
entering the  Female. 

This verse comes directly from  Chapter Six of the Tao 

Te Ching:  "The  Valley Spirit never dies, it is called the 
Mysterious Female. The gateway of the Mysterious Female is 
the  source  of Heaven and Earth.  It has been with us con-
stantly; use it as you will, it is never exhausted." 

In  the  Recorded Sayings of Master Ta Ma it is said,  "The 

Mysterious  (hsuan)  represents heaven, ching  (essence)  and 
the nose. The Female  (p'in)  represents  earth,  blood  (and 
ch'i)  and the abdomen.  Hsuan is the father of ching, and 
p'in is the mother of ch'i. So that which departs from the 
father is ching, that which enters the female is ch'i. Within 
each person there is the Mysterious Female.  Everyone can 
create a spiritual embryo. The Valley Spirit refers to yang 
shen  (pure  spirit); with just one  drop  of yang shen uniting 
with the ching and ch'i, the spirit embryo is born". 

Again, in paraphrase, by treasuring the ching, circulating 

the ch'i and taking one crucial medicine, immortality is 
achieved. The crucial medicine is yang shen or the Valley Spirit 
as Lao Tzu puts it. But the big question is "what is yang 
shen?"  Really there is no need to ask because it has been with 
you all the time. However, until the ching is restored and the 
ch'i circulates it remains hidden and cannot form the elixir of 
immortality. This is like having a pot of water and a stove, but 
for one reason or another you never connected the two as 
being components for making steam. Making steam may have 
seemed like magic long ago when it was first discovered. So 
too does creating a spirit embryo seem like magic to those 
who do not treasure ching and circulate the ch'i and cannot 
see them as components for immortality. Saint Augustine aptly 
said,  "There are no miracles, just unknown laws of nature.” 

73 

It appears  to have per-
ished,  yet  appears  to 
exist.  Unmovable,  its 
origin is  mysterious. 
This is referring to the 

Valley Spirit or yang shen. We 
all have a sense that there is 
some  spiritual aspect within us, 
yet we cannot touch it, smell it, 
hear it, taste it or see it. So we 
assume it doesn't exist, yet 
because we sense it with our 
minds and hearts we assume it 
exists. However, it is within each 
of us and is unchanging and 

Releasing the spirit (shen) 

never dies, immovable.  But as to where it comes from even 
Lao Tzu admitted ignorance,  “I do not know its  origin",  so 
he just made up a name, Tao. 

This spiritual aspect is what the alchemists call the  "spir-

it  embryo",  a spiritual pregnancy of sorts. This embryo is 
also described by the earlier passage,  "keep  to non-being, yet 
hold onto  being",  which is how the Taoist views this inner 
spiritual aspect of himself.  Here, the view is that it appears 
not to really exist  (in substance), yet simultaneously it does 
exist (in function). 

This is what Lu Szu-hsing meant in his appended verses, 

uEven  if you are unable to make use of the substance (non-
you  can  certainly make  use of the function (being). 

Frequently  both  the  substance  and  conditions for  the  substance 
appear together. Although these are not always perceived as 
identical."  Substance  means primal essence  (Before  Heaven 

74 
or pre-birth condition); function is the "turbid ching" (After 
Heaven  or post-birth condition).  Substance creates the  spirit 
embryo; function creates human life, but can be restored to 
form the elixir and return to primal essence. Sometimes the 
primal essence (Before Heaven) and the conditions for it 
(After Heaven) appear simultaneously -  a living spirit 
embryo. 

Not always being perceived as identical means that we  are 

normally perplexed by the idea that the primal essence 
(Before Heaven) and turbid ching (After Heaven) are essen-
tially identical.  Meaning, the inner essence and outer mani-
festation of all things are, in the end, identical. Just as the 
leaves and branches of a tree are identical with treeness. We 
all have the medicine of immortality within us (the sub-
stance), yet we cannot see that our very existence is a mani-
festation  of (the  conditions)  of immortality. 

Moreover, the  accomplished adept, on  forming and 

realizing this embryo, understands that it was always there, 
eternal. Yet, even with this knowledge and experience, the 
origin of it eludes him.  This is like the discussion of what 
came first, the chicken or the egg. We can see the chicken, 
we can see the egg, we can even understand the transforma-
tion  and impregnation,  but we  cannot know where  any of it 
first originated. Lao Tzu just called it Tao for lack of know-
ing what to call it.  Buddha told us not to think about it, that 
beginnings and endings are the illusory nature  of mind. 

Each person has  ching;  the shen unites with the 
ching and the shen unites with the ch'i.  The 
breath then unites with the True Nature.  Before 
you have attained this True Nature,  these terms 
appear to  be fanciful exaggerations. 

75 

Most  of this  has  already  been  explained,  except  that the 

True Nature is a name for your primal spirit (yuan shen) 
within  the  context  of having  attained  immortality.  Previous 
to this state you are  not aware  of your True Nature, which is 
why the  text emphasizes that if you have  not attained  to  this 
True Nature  then  all these words and names are nothing but 
fantasy and  exaggerations. 

Uniting the  breath with the True Nature is a state in 
meditation where  breath is no longer just a physical  func-
tion.  The  mind  moves the  breath in such a subtle  manner 
that it is almost imperceptible, yet the  breath is much fuller. 
This  is  the  very beginning of the  creation  of the  spirit 
embryo  and the first stage  in releasing the p'o  spirit's  control 
over the physical body.  Once this stage is experienced there 
will  be  no  more  doubt about the  shen or the  existence  of 
spiritual energies within yourself.  Some works refer to this as 
the  "one  breath"  (i ch'i) or Before  Heaven breath, as it is the 
breath you possessed  before you were  born. 

The shen is  capable of entering stone;  the shen 
is capable of physical flight.  Entering water it is 
not drowned;  entering fire it is  not burned. 

In  the  Chuang Tzu we  find  in  Chapter  One  a  discussion 

between  Chen Wu  and  Lien Shu about a  man  living on  Ku 
She  Mountain who had skin like ice and snow, gentle and 
innocent as a young girl.  He did not eat any of the  five 
grains,  but drank wind  and  dew.  He  could  climb  upon 
clouds  and  mists,  ride flying dragons  and wander beyond  the 
four  oceans.  Chien Wu thought all this nonsense, but Lien 
Shu reprimanded him.  Lien Shu explained that a  man like 

76 
the one on Ku She Mountain could not be harmed by any-
thing.  That even if flood waters reached the sky, he would 
not be drowned.  If all the  metals and stone  of the  earth were 
melted  by drought, he would not be burned. 

The underlying principle here is that an immortal has 
control over the five elements, rather than the elements con-
trolling him. The shen here is referring to the mind, but in 
the  state of an immortal the  mind controls the  body, or in 
Taoist terms, the hun spirit has conquered the p'o spirit.  In 
the  mortal state the  body, for the most part, controls the 
mind, which is to say that the p'o spirit overwhelmingly 
influences your actions. 

The shen  depends  on life-form and the 
ching depends  on  sufficient ch'i.  If these  are 
neither depleted nor injured,  the result will 
be youthfulness  and longevity. 

Without a physical  body within which the shen can 

unite with the ching and ch'i; without sufficient ch'i for the 
ching to unite with, there could be no immortal foetus or 
elixir of immortality to which to give  birth.  For this  reason 
the hun and  p'o  need each other. The body is like the caul-
dron in which the mixture may be refined, but once com-
plete shen no longer needs a life-form.  However, the key 
statement here is that if the ching and ch'i are not depleted 
or injured then youthfulness and longevity will ensue. 
Youthfulness and longevity are important to the Taoist in 
that there will  be added years in which to form the elixir and 
youthfulness will provide the vitality and stamina needed for 
the endeavor.  Just to live a long time is of no value to the 
Taoist unless good health  accompanies it. 

77 

These three distinctions  have one principle, 
yet so subtle it cannot be heard. 

The three distinctions are ching, ch'i and shen.  The one 
principles is that through experiencing emptiness (returning 
to the void) immortality is achieved.  But how would anyone 
ever know about it unless they were told? The formula is 
that subtle  and abstruse.  However, even if you hear it there 
is no guarantee that you can make use of it.  Because first you 
must know how to treasure the ching correctly, how to cir-
culate the ch'i correctly, how to unite them with the shen. 
Even if all this is accomplished there is still the problem of 
refinement and transformation. So it is no easy task. As Li 
Ching-yun  (a contemporary Taoist reported to  have  lived 
two hundred and fifty years) stated, "Forming the elixir is 
easy in comparison to having first put an end to the Seven 
Emotions (chi p'o)." The text is indeed talking about some 
very subtle  conditions to  be  mastered. 

Their meeting results in existence, 
their parting results  in non-existence. 

When the Three Treasures come together we attain life; 
in their refinement and transformation we attain immortality. 
When they separate  or become exhausted we  die. 

This line  can also  be interpreted to  mean that when  the 
hun and p'o unite there is life, when they separate each goes 
their own way and soon dies. Therefore, the Taoist seeks 
immortality in order to preserve the hun spirit, thus prevent-
ing the p'o spirit from  becoming a demon or ghost and hav-
ing  to undergo the long transmigration period of uniting the 

hun and p’o just to endure human suffering over again. 

78 

This is also a reference to when the sun and moon unite 
in the  Golden  Court; or when the  Green  Dragon  and White 
Tiger are sublimated in the cauldron; or when lead and mer-
cury are  transmuted into gold; or when yin and yang return 
to  Tao. 

The seven  apertures  interpenetrate 
and each emit wisdom light. 

The seven apertures are the two eyes, two ears, two nos-
trils and the mouth. (The nine openings include these in addi-
tion to the anal orifice and the sexual organ orifice. These 
last two are  not included here for the reason that they are to 
be  closed off from any dissipation of energy).  The  seven 
apertures are the holders of the six senses, sight, sound, smell, 
taste, touch and thought.  Each of these senses also has a 
consciousness, which can  interpenetrate  any of the  others. 
The eyes can smell, the mouth can hear, the nose can feel, 
the mind can touch and so on. This is really true.  In all there 
are eighteen sense realms: six sense organs, six sense con-
sciousnesses and the objects of the senses.  It is only because 
of our discrimination  of the  senses,  objects  of sense  and  the 
attachment to the physical  organs themselves that we cannot 
experience  interpenetration  of these  consciousnesses.  We, 
and we  alone, have imprisoned ourselves within those sensa-
tions of sense. The immortal is free of those discriminations 
and attachments, and so can use  any of those consciousness-
es in whatever fashion desired. 

The  immortal's  mind  clearly sees that these sense organs 

are all empty and can thus illuminate both the conscious-
nesses and the objects of those senses. This is the state of 
Nature Void discussed earlier. 

When you enter this state  of Nature Void the  seven 

79 

apertures can emit light, or wisdom light as it is properly 
called.  To  explain this phenomena all we  must understand is 

what happens when we shut our eyes. Do colors appear or 
not?  Of course  they do. When we  dream we  also see  colors 
and lights. Where  do  these colors and light come  from when 

we have closed off our organ of sight? From the conscious-
ness  of sight. When  dreaming we  may close  off the  sense 
organs,  but the  sense  consciousnesses still  function  and thus 
produce objects of sense. Therefore, the immortal under-
stands  that not  only are  objects  of the  senses  illusionary  and 
false, but that the  organ  and consciousness are  also,  and is 
thus  left with  the  experience  of Nature Void. 

This is what  Chuang  Chou spoke  about in chapter two 

of his  work  (The  Chuang  Tzu).  "I,Chuang  Chou,  dreamt 
once  that I was a  butterfly flitting  about,  going  anywhere  as I 
liked.  I had  no  knowledge  of a  Chuang  Chou.  But suddenly I 
awoke and became  the  usual  Chuang  Chou  again.  Now I 
don}t know  whether it really was  Chuang  Chou  dreaming  he 
was a butterfly, or that the butterfly is now dreaming to be 
Chuang Chou.  I suppose there  must be some distinction  between 
this  Chuang  Chou  and the butterfly, but this is what is meant 
when we say that things undergo transformation" 

A butterfly is used in Taoism to symbolize the meta-

morphosis  of a  mortal  being into  an immortal  being, just as 
a caterpillar transforms into a butterfly.  Chuang Tzu uses 
this story in a very clever manner, revealing that he under-
went this transformation and realized that the consciousness-
es of the senses were empty and false, along with the  organs 
of sense  and  objects  of sense.  For if those  senses,  in  either 
the  organ  state,  consciousness state  or object state were  true 
and  real,  then  how could  Chuang  Chou  be  unaware  of 
dreaming he was  a  butterfly and likewise  how could the  but-
terfly be  unaware  of Chuang  Chou? 

The Seven P'o Spirits and  Three Hun Spirits 

81 

Moving  on, when you realize  that these  senses,  their 
consciousnesses  and  objects,  are  empty, the  mind becomes 
very bright  and light is  actually emitted  from  each  of the 
seven apertures. This is wisdom light, which comes from 
illuminating the  true  nature  of the  six senses.  It is  much  like 
opening the  curtain  in  the  morning where  light rushes in  to 
fill the room. But in this case it is reversed, as the brightness 
of your  mind  shines  outward. 

In  meditation  practice,  many undergo  the  experience  of 

seeing what seems like  a thousand tiny lamps suspended 
inside  the  top  of the  head,  along with  an  extreme sense  of 
joy. This is neither enlightenment nor transformation. You 
s h o u ld  not  attach  to  the  experience.  This  light shining with-
in  the  mind  however is  an  indication  of the  existence  of wis-
dom  light.  It cannot shine  outwards  because there is still 
attachment to the physical  body and its senses, and so it is 
contained within  the  body. 

This experience  is just the  result of yang hou  (advancing 

the yang), which is to say that the yang shen  (positive vitali-
ty)  has  reached to  the  ni wan cavity,  but  is not an  indication 
of the  elixir having been  formed.  There  is no  need to 
attempt duplicating the  experience, for to  do  so will  only 
result in  becoming attached to joy  (one  of the  seven  p'o  spir-
its)  and will  eventually bring about fanaticism  and  mental ill-
ness.  Let it go, there is much work ahead.  Rather, progress 
by bringing the  light into  the  Golden  Court,  letting it drop 
down into  the  lower tan-tien. When it does so there will  be  a 
sound like  thunder, then the embryo can be  formed. A phys-
ical sign that someone has reached this level is when the left 
eye  frequently remains closed.  This happens because of an 
unconscious  response  to  retain  the  light of the yang shen, 
preventing its  dissipation  outward  through  the  eye  organ. 

The process at this point is what the Taoist calls, 

82 
"returning the light to reflect the illumination."  For the 
light must continually be  returned to oneself if the  elixir is  to 
be obtained.  If the light is continually emitted it will exhaust 
itself.  So, the Taoists say, stop the seeing and stop the hear-
ing,  return everything to emptiness.  Stop the seeing means 
to continually look inward at the light; stop hearing means 
to continually listen inwards.  Continue until emptiness is 
achieved, wherein there is no inward and outward. This is 
returning to  the Void. 

The sacred sun and sacred moon illuminate 
the  Golden  Court.  One attainment is  eternal 
attainment. 

The  "sacred  sun"  represents the left eye and positive 

vitality (yang shen); the  "sacred moon”  represents the right 
eye and negative vitality (yin shen). The "Golden Court" is 
within the  brain, usually called the  "Third  Eye",  or in some 
Taoist texts it is called,  hsuan kuan (The Mysterious Pass). 
Actually there  are about thirty-six names used in Taoism by 
various schools to indicate the  Golden  Court. 

This experience is much different than the previous one 
of wisdom light, as the text now brings us to actual illumina-
tion. The difference in one context is that the former is the 
illumination of the  brain  organ  (the sixth sense  organ)  and 
the  latter is the illumination of the  mind consciousness itself. 
Not only is the mind sense organ perceived as empty and 
false, but also the mind consciousness and the sense objects 
of the mind. This is truly "entering the Void".  Once this 
state is achieved it will remain with you forever, which is why 
the  text  adds,  one  attainment  is  eternal attainment. 

In early Taoism, before the  Chin and Wei dynasties, the 

sacred sun and  moon were normally referred to as  "green 

83 

dragon, white  tiger”.  These were just references for yang 
shen and yin shen; the ch'i rising along the left: and right 
sides of the spine respectively.  However, it is the harmoniz-
ing of these  two within the hsuan kuan that brings about 
true illumination, not their separation, and when  they return 
to the tan-tien together they form the elixir. 

In separation the yang shen causes the spirit to leave the 
body, which is a great experience, but also dangerous.  If the 
spirit does not return quickly it may become  attached to 
such heavenly sights  and not return to  do the work of form-
ing the immortal foetus. This is the stage referred to in 
Taoist texts as riding on dragons and/or storks, wandering 
about the sun or dancing on the  moon.  The yin shen will 
also cause the spirit to leave the body, but finds itself in the 
ghostly and demonic realms.  In either case these stages 
should be foregone so as to continue with the transforma-
tional process. The immortal foetus develops only after they 
have been harmonized and congealed into the elixir within 
the tan-tien.  Once this is accomplished there is further subli-
mation yet to undergo. Which is, as with the Jade  Emperor, 
to proceed to  become  a  Golden  Immortal. 

The  body will naturally become weightless. 
When the  Supreme Harmony is  replete,  the 
bone fragments  become like winter jade. 

There  are  numerous stories about Taoist immortals 

whose bodies were so light that they never left footprints. A 
Buddhist lohan (arhat) is also said to have this same ability so 
that even insects under his feet will not be killed.  But why 
the body becomes weightless is a very important question. 
To answer it we must examine why human beings are heavy, 

84 
or subject to gravity. The first reason, obviously, is our stom-
ach. The  Chinese say that the root of human suffering is the 
stomach. We work to fill it with foods which delight the eye 
and palate, we even kill other creatures for the sake of our 
stomachs. The tortoise, a symbol of longevity, lives a long 
time because it eats very little and does not crave fine delica-
cies. 

To make  matters worse the food we put in our stomachs 

causes many illnesses, even death in some cases. Since the 
food we ingest sits in our intestines, stomach and bowels 
many toxins are formed. The Taoists say,  "One  fart is worth 
one gold bar to an old  man",  because poison has left the 
body. We may or may not wish to-accept this but it is 
thought that cancer is a direct result of eating meat -  not 
that the  meat is necessarily rotten, rather that the spirit of 
the animal seeks its hateful revenge on the person who ate it. 
This is the karma of "You kill me, I kill  you."  Another prob-
lem is that tension, fear and anxiety usually first strike the 
stomach and the viscera surrounding it, creating many ill-
nesses and diseases. 

In Taoist thought, the  p'o  (earthly spirit)  resides over 
the physical  body,  and the nature of p'o is to descend not 
ascend. Whatever keeps the  body heavy and subject to gravi-
ty is supported by the p'o. The hun (heavenly spirit)  resides 
over the spiritual body.  Its nature is to ascend and not 
descend, and whatever causes the  body to  be light and not 
subject to gravity is supported by the hun. When the  Golden 
Court is illuminated by the sacred sun and  moon,  the hun 
then rules over the p'o.  The physical body naturally becomes 
lighter and not subject to  gravity. 

Another aspect of this is that the new immortal can now 
begin living off the wind and dew for nourishment, not food 
and especially not grains and meats which only suffice to 

85 

make the p'o stronger.  For this reason Taoists in their initial 
training usually subsist on  a pure vegetarian diet and/or 
herbal remedies.  Not all Taoist recluses and sects thought 
this however.  Some  believed that small amounts of grain and 
meats periodically kept the  body strong and so helped them 
in the difficult work of cultivation.  Moderation is the key 
word  here,  not abstinence. 

The immortal also has permeated his bones with ch'i, 
thus they become almost pure marrow, much like that of 
birds or cats. Watch a cat jump and you'll understand how 
light the  bones  must be. 

When the Supreme Harmony is replete means that when 

the yin shen and yang shen exist in union within oneself 
there results the Supreme Harmony,  t'ai  ho, which literally 
translates as  "the highest union". This union of yin shen and 
yang shen is the elixir of immortality. The elixir is refined 
more and more, just as steel is refined over and over to 
improve its quality and grade.  Through refinement the elixir 
becomes  evermore  "replete". 

The bone fragments will become like winter jade. Winter 
jade is white jade or as Taoists like to think of jade, dragon 
ching.  In both Taoist and Buddhist beliefs this winter jade is 
called she-li, which comes from  the Sanskirt term  sarim. This 
she-li is considered to be physical evidence of a true immor-
tal or lohan.  It is supposedly the transformation of bone  into 
marrow and then into a vajra (diamond like or indestruc-
tible like) substance. Many sages after their departure from 
the world were  cremated and pieces of these winter jade-like 
bone fragments are found among the ashes, which are then 
treasured as holy relics. 

Attaining the elixir results in immortality, 
not attaining it results  in its  extinction. 

86 

This is an obvious statement to exhort the  cultivator 
into  remembering the fundamental purpose, acquiring the 
elixir.  If the elixir is not acquired we will undergo a common 
death, which is the  separation of hun  and p'o. 

The elixir is within yourself, 
it is not white and not green. 

Again the text is reminding the cultivator that the alche-
my for attaining the elixir of immortality sits directly inside 
oneself and there is no point in looking externally for some 
magic pill.  Everything needed is contained within.  "Not 
white, not  green,  is a reference to physical substances such 
as cinnabar and gold, mercury and lead, which some 
alchemists consider the basis for the  "pill  of immortality". 

Lu Szu-hsing writes in his appended verses,  ‘‘The elixir 

is called "green dragon and white tiger", this elixir is the 
nature of no-nature, emptiness of  non-emptiness."  His  point 
here is that nature and no-nature, emptiness and non-empti-
ness are just called  "green  dragon and white tiger.”  Dragons 
and tigers, green and white  arc just images of the elixir.  The 
images are used because the true elixir -  nature and no-
nature, emptiness and non-emptiness - is imageless.  Green 
dragons and white tigers are just expedient symbols used by 
the Taoist adept before realizing the true elixir. 

Lu also writes, " The two images of the dragon and tiger 

are unified through ch'i (breath); chaos blending as One." 
The  dragon and tiger are  also symbols of yin and yang. 
When true breath (i-ch'i) is achieved in meditation the yin 
and yang are unified.  "Chaos"  is a term for the primal condi-
tions of yin and yang,  before their separation.  To return to 
this primal  condition is the nature of no-nature  and empti-
ness of non-emptiness, the One. 

87 

Recite and hold ten-thousand times. These are 

the subtle principles for self-illumination. 

Reciting and  holding  here  means  that you  can  repeat 
the  entire  text by memory,  not just reading it.  In  our mod-
ern  society we  don't accentuate  training the  memory,  choos-
ing rather to  let computers  and  calculators store  our infor-
mation for us. This is a great loss.  Computers and calculators 
are  inventions which  originally were  designed  to  imitate  the 
mind,  but what they really do is weaken the  mind, as the 
mind is one sense like a muscle and needs exercise.  In 
Taoism, as well as Buddhism,  memorization of sacred texts 
and chants were  fundamental  practices  of self-illumination. 
Once  a text is  memorized it becomes part of the  cultivator,  a 
sealing in  of wisdom,  influencing their thoughts  and  actions 
so the  goal  of self-illumination  can  be  reached  more  expedi-
ently, as well as being able to draw from the wisdom instan-
taneously in the  face  of obstacles.  The idea and practice  of 
"mind-seal" begins with the ability to memorize the tenets 
and processes  for attainment. 

However,  Lu Szu-hsing warns us that  "it  is not possible 
to  acquire  the  eternal  through just  invocation."  Just to  recite 
this scripture, no  matter how many times, will be  in vain if 
we  do  not cultivate  and  attain  the  elixir  -  emptiness of non-
emptiness, nature  of no-nature.  Recitation  or  chanting  is  a 
practice of mindfulness and mindfulness is the groundwork 
for tranquility and purity. 

These  are  the subtle principles of self-illumination.  All  of 
the  above verses refer to the  principles  for the attainment of 
self-illumination.  Each verse  requires  much learning and 
must  be  developed  through  intuitive understanding,  for they 
are subtle  and mystical.  This intuitive understanding can 

only come from practice and study.  For as the text related 
earlier, "the sages awaken through self-cultivation; deep, pro-
found, their practices require great effort." 

The Three Treasures  of 

Immortality 

The following is a  translation  from  Hsien  Tao  Ching Tso 
Ching  (The  Way  of Immortals Meditation  Classic),  compiled 
by  T'ien  Chien.  Contained within  this work  is a chapter on  the 
Three  Treasures,  taken from the records of the Lung Men 
(Dragon Door) sect of Taoism.  The piece is a collection of apho-
risms and  quotes from  various  Taoist scriptures and  masters. 
Since  I found  this work  not only  complementary  to,  but helpful 
in  the  understanding  of the Jade  Emperor's  Mind  Seal  Classic, 
I deemed  it best to  attach  it.  It contains an  abundance  of 
Taoist terminology, which  may or  may not be  difficult for the 
reader. However, I decided to let the work to stand on its owny 
without commentary  or footnote, wishing  to  treat the  work 
more as a reference or source document, than as a scripture. 

Translator 

Introduction 

Ching, ch'i and shen activate  the  human  being.  If they 
are  not depleted  they will work intrinsically to  produce  the 
substances needed to remain youthful.  The  ancients have 
stated,  "Heaven has three treasures  -  the  sun,  moon and stars. 
Mankind has three treasures  -  ching,  ch'i  and shen." 

The  ching within the  human  body is  an abstract and 
subtle substance.  There  are various, broad definitions of 
ching which  describe  the  particular chings within  the  human 

body,  such as the chings of the Five Viscera  (wu  tsang). 
There are even more specific definitions which describe the 
chings  of the  reproductive  system. 

The restored ching is defined as hsien ti'en (Before 

Heaven) and hou  t'ien  (After Heaven). You receive the ching 
of Before Heaven from your parents. In the Ling Shu Ching, 
chapter on  "Meridians and  Pulses",  it says: "A person's life 
begins with a ching that is initially intact." 

The After Heaven ching comes  about during the trans-

formation  of birth, which  then  causes  the  need  to  cat and 
drink. The  Su  Wen Ching, in an attached treatise on meridi-
ans and pulses, says:  "When you eat food, some of the nutri-
ents enter the  bone. The excess nutrients overflow the puls-
es. When you drink, the nutrients go to the stomach.  But 
the excess liquid causes the ching and ch'i to be in surplus 
and so dissipation  occurs."  This describes the After Heaven 
ching.  It is only when the After Heaven and Before  Heaven 
chings  assist each other that there can  be  harmony within  the 
body. 

The ch'i completes the human  body, being the primal 

substance and function of life itself.  Everyone has primal 
(yuan) ch'i, also called "true ch'i". There is the ch'i of the 
viscera and bowels,  ch'i  of the  meridians,ancestral  ch'i, culti-
vated ch'i, protective  ch'i  and so on.  But the most important 
ch'i is  that of your nature  (hsing  ch'i).  In the Bright Peak 
Record it says, "A person's life is totally dependent upon 
their  nature  ch'i.” 

The  shen  unified  with ching and ch'i, becomes a single 

substance which  initiates  the  activity of life.  The  Ling Shu 

91 

Ching (Divine  Pivot Classic) states,  "Both essences  (ching 
and ch'i) when unified are called  shen."  In the chapter The 
Man of Harmony Retreats to the Valley, it also says,  "The 
shen resembles a mountain stream of ching and  ch'i.”  The 

Ping Ching (Great Equalling Classic) says, "Humans have 

ching and ch'i, which results in their obtaining the shen; if 
the ching and ch'i disperse this will cause the shen to per-
ish." 

The  average  person considers that they have  only one 

type of active thinking consciousness. Yet, if they could 
restore the shen within they would perceive that this is per-
fection and that it is the central substance of human life. This 
is exactly what the Ling Shu  Ching,  in the chapter on 
Restoring Ching to Transform the Ch'i, means when it 
states,  "Those who acquire this shen flourish; those who lose 
this shen perish." 

The emphasis of tao kung (skills of the Way) lies in the 
refinement of shen,  the penetration of shen  and  the guarding 
of shen.  These  three  practices  are  of the utmost importance. 

Many ask how the ching, ch'i and shen relate to one 

another. The  Su  Wen Ching (Plain Questions  Classic)  states: 
"Within the ching the ch'i is produced; within the ch'i the 
shen is  produced."The  Liu Ching (Classification  Classic) 
states:  "Perfecting the ching results in the perfecting of ch'i; 
the perfecting of ch'i results in the perfecting of shen." 

The  ancient Taoist masters originally transmitted these 

principles in their treatises so as to make clear that "the 
refinement of ching results in  the  transformation  of ch'i; the 
refinement of ch'i results in the transformation of shen; the 

92 

refinement of shen results in the return to the  Void."  The 
Void here  means the spiritual heaven of no-nothingness. 
Additionally,  "the  accumulation  of shen  produces ch'i  and 
the accumulation of ch'i produces ching." 

From  the perspective  of tao kung the  refinement of 

ching and the  production of ch'i nourishes the  shen, which 
strengthens the body. To the novice this is the most impor-
tant  principle. 

CHING 

(The  First  Treasure) 

The character for ching (essence) has the idiom  mi (rice) 

along the left side, which is associated with plant seeds.  On 
the  right side  is  ching,  or greenness and the  easterly direc-
tion, which are  associations of wood. Plants and wood, like 
food and drink, can be seen in terms of an inner essence and 
an outer manifestation.  Ching is the human body's treasure. 

Plants  and wood  are  born of water, which normally 
peaks  during the  interim period  of tzu (the  third watch  -
11:00 pm to  1:00 am). Tzu is associated with water and the 
kidneys; the kidneys are the Water Treasury. Tzu is posi-
tioned in the northern direction. Therefore, these are born 
out  of the  tzu  position. 

You must repair the damage food causes to the ching. 
You must daily repair and nourish  each  of the seven  open-
ings as they become damaged by food. 

Those who either diminish their ching or lose  the ching 

93 

through involuntary emissions damage  both the shen  and 
ch'i,  and the  spirit of vitality becomes unrestorable. 

The secretions are transmuted into blood, dwelling in 

the  Red Palace (heart); the  blood transmutes into ching, 
dwelling in the Life Gate (two kidneys); ching then trans-
mutes into heat, dwelling in the  Ocean of Ch'i (lower 
abdomen); the ch'i then relies on this warm energy to trans-
mute itself into shen; and, the shen depends on this energy 
to transmute itself back to its primal condition, yuan shen." 

The True Man, Tan Yuan  (Tranquil  Garden) said: 

"Within a person's body there is but one original energy. 
Yet, you must return the illumination like reflected light. 
Gather this energy, sink it as much as possible and abide by 
it. After a long time, within the midst of yourself you will 
discover a greater self." 

Pao P'o Tzu said:  "The  substance is warmed by the 
breath and the water is acquired, resulting in an embryo. 
The ch'i can transmute the ching." 

Ching is man's original constitution (yuan ching)\ blood 

(hua) is the outer manifestation; movement is the result of 
ching and stillness the  result of ch'i.  Ching and ch'i  operate 
as one unit.  Blood causes the ching and ch'i to unite and 
become manifest. In the old days this was called "the  flower” 
(hua). 

In the Return to the Source Treatise (Kuei Yuan Lun) it 
says,  "Plants and wood cultivate their essence  (ching)  in one 
year, then reveal their flowers. The fruit of all wood is in the 
flowers; the female embryo is entirely in the blood." 

94 

Ching is able to produce ch'i; ch'i is also able to pro-

duce ching.  Like water becoming clouds, ching can become 
ch'i.  Like clouds becoming water, ch'i can become ching. 
During spring and summer, the clouds are full of rain, and 
are excessive.  During autumn and winter, the clouds are 
light and too sparse. When humans are young and strong 
the ching and ch'i are full. 
In old age the ching has been 
dissipated and the ch'i exhausted. This is a natural principle 
of heaven, earth, man and all phenomena  (the  ten-thousand 
things). 

Chi'en  Hsu Tzu  (Master Concealing Emptiness)  said: 

"The yin within yang is called ching; the yang within the yin 
is called ch'i.  Both of these are mutually dependent and born 
of each other." 

The  skills  of refining  ching  and  transmuting ch'i are 

ordinarily divided into three stages, the three gatherings of 
yang (san ts'ai yang). The first type of yang is, "to guard low 
in the  tan-tien";  the second is,  "to  produce yang"or "to 
return the one yang"; and the third is,  "to  gather the yang”, 
which is also called, "to gather the herbs and bring them to 
the stove." 

You  cannot  refine ching and transmute ch’i without 

using wind and fire. Wind means the breath (ch'i), fire the 
spirit (shen). When the shen enters the ch'i,stimulate it as 
you would use a bellows for stoking a furnace. This will nat-
urally result in the ching transmuting to ch'i. 

To  refine ching and transmute ch'i you should  practice 

the  "quick  fire";  to  refine the ch'i and transmute shen you 

95 

should practice the  "slow  fire". 

Quick fire means having the sensation of heat; slow  fire 

means not  having the  sensation  of heat. 

The ancients said:  "It  is not necessary to activate a 
strong fire, as the stove within yourself is already strong 
enough." This means, the body does not need be hot,  as 
normal body warmth is enough to create the embryo. This is 
similar to  attaining the  state  of 'being'  and  'non-being', 
where there is also no requirement for experiencing an auspi-
cious inner light, as the mind is already full of light. There is 
a secret saying,  "to refine the ch'i and transmute the shen, 
nourish the  slow fire and breathe without a coming or 
going.  This will  most certainly bring about the perfection of 
bliss." 

Refining ching and transmuting ch'i is  the  Eye  Treasury 
of Buddhism  and the  "returning  the  light to reflect the  illu-
mination"  of Taoism.  Lao Tzu said,  "without desire, you can 
contemplate  the  subtlety  (of your True  Nature); with  desire 
you  can  contemplate  the  boundaries  (of your True  Nature)". 
"To contemplate the subtlety without desire"is the method 
of abstract stillness  (contemplation  of turning the  seeing  and 
hearing inwards).  "To  contemplate the  boundaries with 
desire”  is  the  method  of entering emptiness  (contemplation 
of the  Void). 

The  root method  for  "refining  ching and  transmuting 
ch'i"  however is described in the phrase,  "with  desire you 
can  contemplate  the  boundaries".  The  question  of how to 
contemplate the boundaries defines the differences between 
the  northern  sect  Tranquility and Purity School (Ching 
Ch'ing Pai), and the southern sect  Grafting Shoots School 

96 
(Tsai Chieh Pai). Each takes a different approach. 

If you can gather into one all that is in front and back of 
you, above and below, left and right, you will arrive at a state 
of spiritual void and fixed tranquility.  The work of refining 
ching and transmuting ch'i will  then  be concluded. 

c 

The  ching of formlessness is called primal  essence  (yuan 

ching). When it separates out from its nebulous origin, it is 
called "turbid ching". Primal ching resides within the primal 
ch'i and primal shen. This flowery essence begins to form 
within them, like an invisible treasury within the body. 

Tung  Hsuan Tzu  (Master Universal Mystery)  said: 

"Cultivate the Tao, otherwise you can never come to know 
the true nature of man and life itself. To pluck the petals in 
search of the branches is to force the issue. To see  flowers 
sprout in the void has no real validity.  It will be most diffi-
cult to develop the  fruit if you lose the nutrition of the pri-
mal  essence  (yuan ching).” 

Ch'ien  Hsu Tzu said:  "To  obstruct the shen results in 
congestion of the ching.  If the  ching is congested the  result 
is dissipated ch'i; dissipated ch'i results in the obstruction of 
forming the elixir." 

Ts'an T'ung (Penetrating Equality) said:  "It is very dif-
ficult to  perceive  the subtlety of primal  essence  (yuan  ching) 
and to understand the subtle convergence it undergoes in 
forming the elixir." 

The primal essence  (yuan ching) is without substance 
and so is difficult to observe; turbid essence does have sub-
stance and is quite evident. 

97 

When primal ching begins to move, let it take its own 
course.  Even during the transmuting process it still has the 
substance of turbid ching. The substance is important, even 
though it is the  lowest grade  of ching. 

The Way of the immortals, in the end, lies in the refine-

ment of the  ching and transmutation  of ch'i.  Ch'i  is light 
and floats upwards. When this occurs all outflows (desires 
and emissions)  of ching will  naturally cease. 

Li Tao  Chun (Plum of Pure Tao) said:  "First refine the 
ching, then use the ch'i to refine it further. When refining, 
always be aware of the sensations of ching ascending." 

Without this Taoist discipline of smelting, the ching is 
nothing more  than the turbid ching of After Heaven; smelt-
ing the ching creates the primal essence of the  Before 
Heaven. Without this discipline, the ch'i is just the ordinary 
breath of the After Heaven; with this discipline it becomes 
the primal vitality (yuan  ch'i)  of Before  Heaven. Without 
this discipline, the spirit is just the knowledge of After 
Heaven spirit; with this discipline it becomes the primal spirit 
(yuan shen)  of Before  Heaven spirit. 

If the  methods of the After Heaven  seem  too vague  and 
difficult, and you are unable to perceive the workings of the 
Before  Heaven do nothing else other than continue with the 
practice  and refinement of the After Heaven  methods until 
such time  that the workings of the  Before  Heaven  become 
do  clear. 

98 

CH'I 

(The  Second  Treasure) 

Purity is heavenly (t'ien) ch'i; impurity is 

earthly (ti) ch'i. 

Motion is yang ch'i; stillness is yin ch'i. 

Heaven's purity is pure yang; earth's impurity is 

pure yin. 

The  movement of heaven  lies  in  the  circularity  of ch'ien 

earth's  stillness  lies  in  the  squareness  of k'un. 

With  regard  to  heaven, purity, impurity, movement and 

stillness are projections through which  the sun  and  moon 
appear. 

With regard to  earth,  they are  projections  through 

which  the  seasons appear. 

With  regard to  mankind, they are  projections  through 

which the wise and average appear.  The sage is yang and 
through  the  casting off of his  mortal  shell  becomes  an 
ascending immortal. The average person is yin and dies in 
old  age  to  become  a spirit or ghost. 

When true ch'i is spread throughout the viscera it 

becomes visceral ch'i, such as: heart ch'i, lung ch'i, spleen ch'i, 
stomach ch'i, liver ch'i and kidney ch'i. So to begin with you 
must strengthen and nourish  the ch'i of the five viscera. 

99 

When true ch'i flows throughout the  meridian routes it 
becomes  the ch'i of the meridian routes. When the ch'i is fully 
gathered it will  proceed to  become  meridian ch'i. 

Regulated  ch'i  works together with the  blood to stimu-

late the ch'i within the pulses and arteries. 

Protective ch'i is the ch'i which gives motion to those 

things external to the pulses and arteries (the flesh and 
bones).  However, if your temperament is either fearful, cruel 
or deceitful the ch'i will be obstructed in the pulses and 
meridians,  as well as in those parts which are external to the 
pulses and  arteries. 

Ancestral ch'i is the  ch'i which  has accumulated within 
the heart/mind. True ch'i comes from ching ch'i (essence 
and vitality) contained within the kidneys, which is to say the 
ch'i that is inherited from your parents. When the ch'i reach-
es the shui ku ("water valley”  -  stomach), it alters the stom-
ach and spleen's  metabolism of life-giving foods. 

In relation to the lungs, there are three divisions in 
which the breath is drawn in. These must be combined 
together in order to be complete. There is an  active and live-
ly type of ch'i which is very powerful, yet in substance, 
abstract.  There  is  a flowing ch'i which penetrates  throughout 
the entire body without any hindrance. There is  mobilized 
ch'i. The storehouse of yang is within the yin, just as fire is 
concealed within water.  Obtaining this ch'i is a matter of 
before heaven. Your longevity will depend on your degree of 
this  ch'i. 

Movement results in  the  manifestation of ching;  tran-

100 

quility results in the  manifestation of ch'i. The  ch'i  mobilizes 
the breath and blood within the  body. Then the ears can 
hear, the eyes can see, the hands can grasp, and the feet can 
walk.  Each of these  arc  the result of ch'i force.  The very 
essence of a person's life is also a result of ch'i, as well as 
birth itself. 

That which is named  "strong”  is called "life". 

The storehouse is regarded as k'an (water). 

True ch'i  (breath) lies within emptiness, which is the 

breath  of neither inhaling nor exhaling.  Likewise, the  ch'i  of 
the True One is Before Heaven. 

The Yellow Court Classic (Huang Ting Ching) says: 

"Immortality is conferred through inhalation  and exhalation 
of primal  ch'i". 

Ts'ui  Hsu Yin  (Reciter of the Pure Void)  said:  "Ch'i is 
not merely ch'i  -  as breath,  but rather the very vapour of the 
original substance." 

Before Heaven ch'i is acquired through the two ch’i's of 
the  mother and father at the  time  of their intercourse.  Their 
union  attracts you and in the  midst of their intercourse you 
attach  yourself to  them. 

After Heaven ch'i comes about at the  time you leave the 
womb  and with  a loud shout become  a prisoner of the  earth. 
At this time the ch'i enters the nose and mouth. 

Before Heaven ch'i is just like the roots of a tree, seek-

101 

ing the source,  of water.  After Heaven ch'i is just like  the 
leaves  of the  tree  which  rely  on  the  circulation  of water. 
Therefore, if the Before Heaven ch'i is exhausted, the After 
Heaven ch'i will  be severed.  Similarly, if the tree's roots are 
severed,  the  leaves will wither,  and if the  source  of the water 
is wanting then the circulation will cease.  Before Heaven ch'i 
and After Heaven  ch'i  cannot become  deficient if they are 
stabilized  and  regulated in  an  orderly fashion. 

Novices ask, "What is called "Before and After 

Heaven?"  Regulated  respiration  through  the  nose  and 

mouth  are After Heaven.  Unregulated respiration  brings 
about death and is Before Heaven.  K'an  and Li are After 
Heaven;  Ch'ien  and  K'un  are  Before  Heaven. 

Another question is,  "How  much time will it take  to 

acquire  the  Before  Heaven ch’i?  The  answer is that when the 
shen  is  pure you can  recapture your youth  and witness  the 
wonderful  results of your efforts. You will retain this state 
even when  relaxing at your leisure.  You can  achieve  the 
Before  Heaven  in  one  hundred  days of internal  cultivation. 

The  source  of Tao is  not external  to shen  and  ch'i; shen 

and ch'i unite as one. 

102 

The  complete  repair of the  ch'ien  (heaven)  within  the 
body is  a result of transmuting ching, transmuting the shen 
and then  "returning to the Void". You advance with every 
step. 

Silence protects the ch'i;  "entering purity and leaving 
the  turbid",  restores the ch'i; "swallowing from above and 
quivering  below"  gathers the ch'i; continuous preservation 
harmonizes the  ch'i; through following natural tendencies 
you will circulate the ch'i. 

Preserve your imagination so that you can exhibit the 
ch'i in any manner.  The Tao Yin  (breath control methods) 
attacks illnesses by mobilizing ch'i. The Taoist naturally 
nourishes the ch'i and so can achieve long-life. The 
Confucian nourishes the  ch'i of magnanimity, concerned 
only for the quality of life and death. These are like past and 
present  men who with  great determination  and  benevolence, 
would give up their life in the sight of danger or sacrifice 
their life  to preserve their integrity. 

So when nourishing the ch'i  be pure of mind, let moral 

principles nourish the ch'i. Fill the entire universe, and 
achieve  greatness; attain an indestructibility that can never be 
extinguished. 

Because shen and ch'i are one whole, they are forever 

contained within the  space  between heaven and earth. 

What is it to refine ch'i and transmute shen?  This is  k'an 

(water)  and li (fire)  uniting within the body; the advancing 
and withdrawing  of heaven  (ch'ien). 

103 

There is water within ch'i, in the form of a buoyant 

mist, yet it does not easily ascend.  If not refined the water 
dissipates and scatters. You must transmute this water and 
allow it to sink downward.  The way of immortals calls this 
"disciplining the true fire." If the water dissipates it will leave 
entirely and the ch'i will be completely exhausted. Awareness 
that the ch'i has been transmuted will in turn stimulate the 
shen. 

The analogy  "clouds  and mists” relates to a sudden illu-

mination of t'ai yang (like sunlight bursting forth through 
the clouds). A burning flame is produced from the water 
within the ch'i  (like lightning and thunder from rain clouds). 
The water then disperses. When the clouds and mists disap-
pear the yang illumination is complete. 

Chang Tzu-yang (Eternal, Purple-yang)  said:  "The 

Heavenly Man (immortal) is originally identical with true 
ch'i. The existence of his physical body causes no further 
spiritual obstructions.  His refinement penetrates both form 
and the unseen (yin fix) aspects of shen, creating a totally 
harmonious condition.  He is therefore aware that form and 
substance are but True Void." 

Employing the shen to regulate the ch'i results from 

heating the ching, which nourishes its original harmonious 
condition, at which point the ch'i will circulate without 
cease. This is the attainment of perfect conditions, as it is 
with steam when it condenses into a liquid state. You will 
then be  able to unite the shen with the  body, producing 
long-life, youthfulness and fulfillment of your destiny and 
nature.  From below (the earthly) you now take  ascent (to 

104 

the  heavenly). 

Ts'ui Tu Tzu (Master Azure Void) said:  "The  most 

important aspect of the  elixir is that of Before  Heaven ch'i. 
Then the work of refinement is like turning a yellow stalk 
into a jade flower." 

Yuan Tu Tzu (Master Within  Causation)  said:  "The  ch'i 

neither dwells in a place above or below man's body, nor 
does it dwell within the body; it is neither internal or exter-
nal; it is formless and imageless." 

San-feng Tsu (Ancestor Three Peaks) said:  "True Before 

Heaven ch'i is acquired through gathering. Then just pro-
ceed slowly with cooking and simmering over the  fire.” 

Chin Kao (Gold Conferrer) said:  "True  Before Heaven 
ch'i is a mark of the void; circulation of true  ch'i creates  mar-
row,  not dried wood.” 

Yu Yang Tzu (Master Jade Yang) said:  "True Before 
Heaven ch'i at its source, is formlessness, but amazingly it 
can bring to life that which has form.” 

Tzu Yang Tsu (Ancestor Purple Yang) said: "True Before 
Heaven ch'i is a mark of true lead. Do not believe in false teach-
ings designed to deceive disciples of the Way for profit.” 

Chung Tsu  (Ancestor Goblet)  said:  "Intelligent men 
obtain  Before  Heaven ch'i through gathering, then in one 
night the thunder is heard and they no longer rest for even a 
minute until the elixir is complete." 

105 

Chung Yang Tsu  (Ancestor  Double Yang)  said: 

"Inhaling and exhaling are mutually responsive. When the 
pulses move the  breath rests. Abstraction is produced 
through  tranquility; within the  greatness  of abstraction  is 
Before  Heaven ch'i, coming forth from within the void.” 

S H EN 

(The  Third  Treasure) 

Shen (spirit)  dwells within each person.  It gives life and 
mental  activity to  each  of us.  The  broad  definition  of shen is 
ching shen (essence  and spirit), or the  spirit of vitality. The 
specific definition is the  brightness of the eyes, for the eyes 
act as the  home  and focus of the shen. 

Shen represents fire (li); ch'i represents water {k'an). After 
Heaven ch'i and shen are visible in the forms of fire and water. 

Concealed within water is perfect tranquility. Within  the 

kidneys  the  ching transmutes  into ch'i. 

Concealed within fire is perfect movement. Within the 

mind is shen.  Shen causes the fire to ascend. 

Before  Heaven shen is like fire within wood and stone; 
within the  eyes shen is like  a burning beacon, even if you are 
unable  to see it. This is the primal shen. 

Between  heaven  and  earth  dwells fire and water. 

Between the eyes the illumination causes the ch'i to rise.  Is 
this  not  the  same  as  the  sound  of thunder produced  by 

106 
clouds and rain between heaven and earth? 

Heaven and earth, sun and moon, are  all able to exist 
for a long time. Man's body employs fire and water and is 
then subject to decay.  However, if man imitates the ways of 
heaven and earth, sun and moon, this condition can be 
reversed and we can exist as long as heaven and earth, the 
sun  and  moon. 

Ling Pao  Tu Jen  Ching (Classic  on Saving Men with the 

Treasures of the  Immortals) says:  "When the shen and ch'i 
unite in the subtlety of the Great Void, there is no life and 
death.  Entering formlessness is establishing the Tao. 
Therefore,  employ the workings  of fire and water within 
yourself.  When the shen ascends fire and water are needed 
no more." 

There is fire within shen, just as there is fire within 

wood.  Though not perceptible this does not detract from 
the truth of its potentiality.  So it is with the shen within 
yourself. The  Ta Tao Ko (Song of the Great Tao) says: 
"Circulate the breath, for within it is true breath. Refine the 
shen, for within it is true shen. Perceptible breath is not true 
breath; the perceptible mind is not true shen.  The immortal 
discovers the true breath and true shen. Average  men only 
know inhalation and exhalation,  and the rational  mind.  This 
is why the immortals talk of primal  ch'i  and primal shen.” 

Primal shen is  beyond thought and beyond imagination. 

It reveals itself only through  tranquility and ultimate  empti-
ness, where in one instant you arc awakened to the experi-
ence of primal  shen.  Knowing this you will  understand thor-
oughly the  meaning of producing heaven,  earth  and the  ten-

thousand things." 

107 

Ch'ien  Hsu Tsu  (Ancestor Hidden Within  Emptiness) 

said:  "Primal  shen acts as your nature.  It is the master of 
ching and ch'i. When the primal shen unites with these  two 
its potential cannot be fathomed, for then the process of 
attaining immortality is methodless. This is called the natural 
workings of shen.  So just cultivate your nature  and skills. 
The shen will then perfect itself.” 

Ancestor Lu (Tung-pin) described four steps in which 

immortality is attained. This is truly the method of no method: 

Forgetting yourself entirely nourishes the ch'i. You then 

attain  the  medicines. 

Forgetting entirely about the ch'i fixes the shen.  The elixir 

is then congealed. 

Forgetting entirely about the shen is returning to the  Void. 

Forgettingentirely  about the  Void is uniting with the  Tao. 

In emptiness the elixir is complete. 

The  only ingredients  needed arc  purity of heart and 
tranquility of mind, where returning to the Void will be a 
natural  process. 

The  Chinese  Phonetic  Text, 

for  Recitation 

For those with  a feeling and inclination for the  ritual  aspects 
of self-cultivation,  the  following phonetic  text for recitation 
is provided.  The English version may also  be  used by those 
not versed in  Chinese.  Either version will  do. 

The  proper manner of performing the  ritual is to place  a 

likeness  of the  Jade  Emperor or Three  Pure  Ones  in  or 
above  the  center and  back of a shrine  table.  Place  lit candles 
and flowers to  each  side  of an  incense  burner.  In  front of the 
incense  burner place three small cups,  offering tea,  cooked 
rice  and  fruit or vegetables  in  each  of these  respectively. 
Make  sure  the  area you recite in is quiet and clean.  Place 
three  lit pieces  of incense in  the  burner.  Bow three  times, 
touching your head to  the floor, and recite  each  time  "Praise 
to  the  Heavenly  Ruler,  the  Jade  Emperor,  Highest Sovereign 
of Heaven  and  all  immortals”. When your head  is touching 
the floor during each  bow mentally offer the flowers, can-
dles,  tea,  rice, vegetables  and incense  to the  Jade  Emperor, 
visualizing yourself as before  him  in his heavenly palace. 
Offer these things in hopes  of receiving an  auspicious 
response  to  the  recitation  of his scripture.  During the  entire 
ritual  keep  a reverent and quiet mind. When  done  reciting 
bow three more times as before.  Finally, light three more 
pieces  of incense  and place  them  outdoors  in  either a  burner 
or in  the  ground.  Bow three  times  at the  conclusion  of each 
recitation. 

109 

Yuh Hwang Shin Yinn Jing 
(repeat above line three  times) 
Shang yaw san piin 
Shern yeu  chee jing 
Huaang  huaang  hu  hu 
Yeau yeau  ming  ming 
Tsurn  wuu  shoou yoou 
Ching keh  erl  cherng 
Jeong  feng  heunn  her 
Bae  ryh  gong ling 
Moh  chaur  shang  dih 
Yi jih fei sheng 
Jy jee yih wuh 
Mey jee  nan  shyng 
Lyuu jiann  tian  guang 
Hu  shi  yuh  ching 
Chu  shyuan  ruh  piin 
Rouh  wang  rouh  tsurn 
Mian  mian  buh jyue 
Guh  dih  shen  gen 
Rem  geh  yeoh jing 
Jing her chyi  shern 
Shern yeu  chee  her 
Chee  her tii jen 
Buh  der chyi jen 
Jie  shyh  chiaang ming 
Shern  neng  ruh  shyr 

Shern neng fei  shyng 
Ruh  shwei  buh  nih 
Ruh  huoo  buh  fern 
Shern yi shyng sheng 
Jing yi chee yng 
Buh  diau  buh  tsarn 
Song  bor  ching  ching 
San piin yi lii 
Miaw  buh  keh  ting 
Chyi jiuh  tzer yeoh 
Chyi  sann tzer ling 
Chi  chiaw shiang  tong 
Chiaw chiaw  guang  ming 
sheng  ryh  sheng yeoh 
jaw yaw jin tyng 
Yi der yeong der 
Tsyh  ran  shen  ching 
Taih  her chung yih 
Guu  sahn  harn  chyong 
Der dan  tzer  ling 
Dan  tsay  shen jong 
Buh  der tzer ching 
Dan  tzay  shen jong 
Fay bor fei ching 
Song chyr wann  biann 
Miaw lii tsyh  ming 

Translator's  Afterword 

I  realize how difficult it is sometimes to wade through 
the cryptic and abstruse passages of Taoist manuals such as 
this, in order to find "the method". What follows is a glean-
ing of personal  insights,  based on my own experience  of 
these processes.  My words are brief. Words are limited in 
depth and this subject is unlimited in depth.  Much however 
can be gained by both study and practice. As Master Liang 
advised me,  "never discourage the critical need for a student 
to both study and practice."  Hopefully I can in some small 
measure,  make the  task of meditation a bit more understand-
able  and practical for the beginner. 

For the  beginner the  best method of meditation is 

counting the  breaths.  This consists only of concentrating on 
the  tan-tien  and counting mentally on each exhalation. 
When  reaching the  count of ten  exhalations,  start over and 
count to ten exhalations again, and just continue this. When 
able  to do this proficiently,  begin  mentally acknowledging 
each  exhalation, not the  inhalation. 

After a period of time the  methods may be dropped and 
you will be able to sit and just focus on the tan-tien without 
thoughts  of counting or exhalations. Whenever you have  dif-
ficulty  concentrating simply direct both eyes to the tip of the 
nose with the eyes slightly open, this will help you concen-
trate  more steadily. 

112 

It is suggested that to enhance your meditation practice 
you  also  employ the  practice  of Pa  Tuan  Chin (Eight  Pieces 
of Brocade).  This is an internal seated yoga set of Taoist 
exercises which can provide very helpful benefits to your 
meditation  practice. 

When sitting (meditating), just sit.  Don't hold judge-

ments  about good sitting or bad sitting, just sit.  If your 
schedule only allows you to sit a few minutes each day, then 
sit those few minutes each day and if possible make that time 
the same each day. Repetitious practice is the true key to suc-
cess.  The  art of sitting relies on three  basics: 

Constantly be  mindful of your posture and adjust the 

part of the  body which feels  awkward. 

Focus all your attention on the tan-tien in the  lower 
abdomen,  not on the  breath  (unless using the  counting 
method). 

When thoughts arise, let them  go and return to focus-

ing on  the  tan-tien. 

In time sitting becomes a very natural and comfortable 
experience.  Before that happens however there are two states 
of mind which cause  most people  to stop their practice.  The 
first is distraction; thoughts arise and lead you far away from 
your focusing. The second is obscurity; this is sleepiness, dull-
ness and exhaustion.  Only time, patience and forbearance 
can cure these problems.  Every day just sit and eventually 
these  obstacles disappear. 

Never attempt to  make the  breath slow, deep and long. 

Let this happen of its own accord. The breath will settle if 
you allow it to.  Once it is settled you will experience what is 
called  "true  breath", which  means that your mind-intent  (or 
will)  controls  it'not  your thoughts. At this point you will 
not be aware  of the  breath,  much like  a baby who just natu-
rally  breathes. 

113 

Within the  stage  of restoring or refining ching, do not 
resort to the sexual  techniques described in various Taoist 
manuals.  Ching is restored and refined not by exercises and 
techniques,  but by mind.  These can be dangerous psycho-
logically and physically, as some techniques are very power-
ful.  If the  mind isn't ready to deal with it, then the results 
tend  towards the  negative. 

The very essence of restoring ching lies in only two 

Moderation in  emission  and purifying the  mind  of sexu-

Moderation in eating and purifying the  mind of bad eat-

things: 

al excesses. 

ing  habits. 

If these can  be  accomplished  and linked with  daily sit-

ting, the gathered ch'i will in the end refine the ching, and it 
is through the positive effects of sitting that the mind is 
gradually purified of such things.  Like the breath, it will 
occur naturally over time.  Neither purity nor tranquility can 
be forced into the mind, otherwise you will have the same 
result as an ant trying to eat a watermelon in one bite. 

Taoism  never espoused the  idea that sexual  techniques 
or celibacy, vegetarianism or fasting, should be forced into a 
life  style,  rather that tranquility of itself cured sexual  excesses 
and unwanted emission,  gluttony and bad habits.  They rely 
on pure  mind to naturally eradicate these  things from our 
nature.  This is like  Buddha's analogy from  the  Surangama 
Sutra of letting the  debris in  a glass of water settle by not 
agitating the water.  Our mind and body are no different. 
Gradually you will reach a state called,  "no  outflows".  Then 
the  energy we normally put into inappropriate expressions of 
sex, conduct and eating is not expressed externally and 
thereby dissipated.  Instead the energy is returned and 
retained  internally to  do  the work of refinement.  If you  real-

114 
ly want to understand how much energy is expended exter-
nally, try not speaking for one month. Words cannot 
describe how vital you become internally from doing this. 

If you continue your practice you will eventually be  able 

to turn your hearing and sight inwards. This stage is called 
‘‘Accumulating  Light."Nothing  external can disturb your 
tranquility, even when not sitting. When you close your eyes 
and look inward there will  be light; turning your hearing 
inward there will be perfect silence. There will also be one or 
all of the following three experiences, not always when sit-
ting, and not in any specific order.  They can occur in any 
relaxed situation and can be cither intense or mild. The fol-
lowing is just a generalized description, it is not meant to be 
an emphatic  guide, just a rule  of thumb. 

First you will internally see what appears to be a thou-

sand tiny lamps lighting up the entire inside  of the top of 
your head; secondly, there will be a flash of bright white light 
followed immediately by a loud thunderous sound in the 
ears and in some cases a profound sense  of lightness of the 
body;  thirdly  there  will be an all-encompassing soft, white 
and cloud like light, along with a warmth generated in the 
lower abdomen. The first experience is accompanied by an 
incredible sense of joy; the second, a sense of absolute clean-
liness; the third, perfect ease.  None of these should be 
attached to.  Just continue sitting and letting go  of the  sensa-
tions.  Otherwise you'll just stagnate  and not progress. 

Depending on the  Before  Heaven ch'i  (inherited ch'i), 
some will experience these states, in part or in whole, with 
very little practice. For some it takes longer as they need to 
further develop their After Heaven  ch'i  (cultivated ch'i). 
There is no guarantee that everyone will experience the same 
thing.  Each of us are different and therefore you may or may 
not have  these experiences in the exact manner described. 

115 
Before these experiences occur they are usually preced-

ed by either horrifying dream states, migraine type 
headaches, a sense of uneasiness, paranoia or an intense 
desire for sex or eating. These pass relatively quickly if you 
are aware of them and thus are not a real concern.  They are 
just the  negative aspects  (p'o)  reacting to the awakening of 
hun, just like a flaring up of a candle before it goes out. 
There is also the problem, in reverse of the above, 

wherein the dream states are incredibly enjoyable, like visit-
ing heavenly realms; giddiness in your daily activities, seeing 
raindrop-like images floating about in the air or hearing 
mumbled voices off in the  distance. Again, let them go and 
they will pass quickly. These arc just the yang aspects (hun) 
releasing themselves from the bonds of yin (p'o). More sim-
ply, your spiritual nature is waking up and breaking out of its 
shell. The  more proficient you become at meditation the less 
you will dream.  This is the result of an increased state of 
tranquility. 

The real problem for anyone who undertakes the prac-
tice of meditation is patience. We want results quickly and 
the aforementioned obstacles usually cause dismay. So we 
halt our practice. Many also have difficulty in understanding 
the  concept of emptiness  and why it is the  goal  of medita-
tion.  Lu Szu-hsing quotes in his appended verses, " The term 
emptiness embraces the entire teaching." Emptiness is not 
empty, it is full  of light.  If we don't empty ourselves, light 
cannot enter.  The  obstacles of distraction  and  obscurity 
block the light of our true  nature.  In  our Western society 
many psychologists have expressed their fears about the idea 
of emptiness  or no-thought.  Their mistake  (and lack of expe-
rience)  in this  matter has been the inability to understand 
that it is not thought which is cut off, for the very nature of 
non-thinking requires thought.  It is not thought which is 

116 
cut off, rather the attachment to thought; the six senses are 
not cut off, the attachment to them is; emptiness is achieved 
through non-attachment to thought and sense data.  There  is 
an enormous difference  between the ideas of "no-thought" 
(extremist view) and "non-attachment to thought." 

If you can just steadfastly sit, illumination will occur. 

There really is no secret other than patience.  Our minds are 
no different than the clouds and rain.  If we are patient they 
will pass and the bright sun will shine. The deep blue skies 
are then filled with light. This sky is like the empty mind and 
the shen is the light. 

The  real work now begins with  "returning the light and 

... 

reflecting the illumination", which is the work of mindful-
ness,  of just sitting and turning the sight and hearing 
inwards, until  a thunderous type of noise is heard coming 
from deep within the lower abdomen.  Continue your prac-
tice, 

just  sitting,  without  backsliding  until 
Unfortunately my knowledge and experiences do not 
go  beyond this, so  I  dare not make the pretense of more 
accomplished states, lest the immortals look down in  dismay 
and report me  to the Jade  Emperor with the  accusation  of 
false speech and the god Erh Lang is sent to arrest me. What 
I dare add is to just keep sitting until the elixir is formed and 
let your spirit embryo grow, which is the advice left to us by 
all immortals and sages, calling it  "patient  endurance". 
Avoid being like the farmer in the Sung dynasty who 
couldn't wait for his crops to grow and so went into his 
fields  at night and pulled all the shoots upwards, only to  find 
his entire  crop withered and dead in the  morning. 

About  the  Translator 

Stuart Alve  Olson  began learning the  Chinese language, 

along with Buddhist and Taoist philosophy, during his resi-
dency at the  City of Ten-Thousand  Buddhas in  Ukiah, 
California (1979-1980).  In  1982 he was invited to live in 
Master Liang's home in St.  Cloud, Minnesota (the only stu-
dent granted this honor). Staying with Master Liang for  five 
years, Stuart studied both  T'ai  Chi  Ch'uan,  Chinese lan-
guage  and philosophy under his tutelage.  Since  that time  he 
has  travelled extensively throughout the  United States with 
Master Liang assisting him in teaching T'ai Chi  Ch'uan. 
Stuart has also taught in  Canada, Indonesia and travelled 
throughout Asia.  He lives in Minneapolis, Minnesota where 
he teaches  T'ai  Chi  Ch'uan, meditation and related Chinese 
disciplines at the  Institute  of Internal Arts.  He compiles  and 
translates various Taoist, Buddhist and T'ai  Chi  Ch'uan ori-
ented  books  for Dragon  Door  Publications. 

Eastern Philosophy 
$10.95 
THE JADE EMPEROR'S MIND SEAL CLASSIC 

The Taoists believe that there is no reason for a person to 
ever suffer physical illness.  Death itself, whether from old age 
or sickness, is an unnecessary occurence.  Illness and death 
occur  as  a  result  of the  dissipation  of the  Three  Treasures -
ching, ch'i and shen - our reproductive, life-sustaining and 
spiritual  energies.  The  secret science  of restoring,  gathering 
and transforming these primal energies creates an  elixir which 
will  confer health,  longevity and  immortality. 

The Jade Emperor's Mind Seal Classic, presented here in the 
first English translation, is a primer on how to achieve these 
benefits.  A supreme  distillation  of Taoist thought,  the  text 
works as the  catalyst for a deep  transformation of being. 

Stuart  Olson,  Taoist practitioner and  long-time  protege  of 
Taoist and T'ai Chi Ch'uan master, T. T.  Liang, provides a 
lucid translation of, and an insightful commentary on this key 
text.  With  its wealth  of practical  information  the  commentary 
will  further reward the  reader with  deeper insights  into other 
great Taoist works, such as The Secret of the Golden Flower and 
Taoist Yoga: Alchemy  and  Immortality. 

Olson supplements this classic with a further translation of a 
rare  treatise  on  The  Three  Treasures of Immortality taken from 
the  Dragon  Door  sect  of Taoism.  A collection  of aphorisms 
and quotes from various Taoist scriptures and masters,  The 
Three  Treasures of Immortality sheds  further light on  the 
processes  that will  lead you  to  enhanced  health  and  longevity, 
if not  enlightenment  and  immortality. 

ISBN D-938045-l0-5 

DRAGON  DOOR 
PUBLICATIONS 


